---
SCOPUS_ID: 85063076307
Title: "Study on the overall energy performance of a novel c-Si based semitransparent solar photovoltaic window"
Author: "Peng J."
Journal: "Applied Energy"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2019-05-15T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2019
DOI: "10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.03.107"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Hunan University"
Affiliation Country: "China"
Cited by count: 83
---

## Abstract
"This paper introduces a novel c-Si based building integrated photovoltaic (BIPV) laminate. It was produced by cutting standard crystalline silicon solar cells into narrow strips and then automatically welding and connecting the strips into continuous strings for laminating between two layers of glass. The overall energy performance of the BIPV insulated glass unit (IGU) including power, thermal and daylighting performance was investigated experimentally. The daily energy conversion efficiency of the active solar cell area was about 15% on sunny days, but it was less than 12% on cloudy days and overcast days. Due to the combined effect of both the semi-transparent PV laminate and the insulated glass unit, the solar heat gain coefficient (SHGC) of the BIPV IGU was as low as 0.25, which was much lower than commonly used glazing windows. Daylight analysis by means of high dynamic range (HDR) cameras and daylight glare probability (DGP) indicated that the BIPV IGU could reduce discomfort glare to some extent compared to clear glass windows. The net energy production of the BIPV IGU was estimated without considering the differences in HVAC energy use in this study. The artificial lighting energy consumption was about 431 W h/day while the average BIPV electricity production for the same period was 1940 W h/day. The net power generation was therefore 1509 W h/day for this BIPV IGU in Berkeley, California. Shading tests for the BIPV IGU were also conducted and the results revealed that the vertical configuration of solar cell wiring in the BIPV laminates was much more sensitive to horizontal shading patterns than vertical shading models. Thus, if shading was unavoidable in some cases, a reasonable arrangement of PV strings should be considered to bring down the energy loss as much as possible. Also, the impacts of environmental factors on the energy conversion efficiency of BIPV IGU were analyzed. Specifically, the power output declined by 0.42% of the peak power for each Celsius degree temperature rise. Thus, if more attention was paid to the heat dissipation issue of BIPV IGU, the overall energy conversion efficiency would be improved."
