---
SCOPUS_ID: 85060298076
Title: "Sustainable technologies as determinants of energy efficient upgrade of existing buildings"
Author: "Dadzie J."
Journal: "2018 International Conference on Smart Grid and Clean Energy Technologies, ICSGCE 2018"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2018-12-03T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2018
DOI: "10.1109/ICSGCE.2018.8556688"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "University of Technology Sydney"
Affiliation Country: "Australia"
Cited by count: 2
---

## Abstract
"The impact of existing buildings on the environment is increasing. There is the need to realign and focus on achieving true sustainability that considers sustainable upgrade of existing built facilities. Thus a detailed sustainable upgrade (SU) to improve energy efficiency requires critical understanding of all the parameters likely to impact energy savings actions. Sustainable upgrade of existing buildings adopts sustainable technologies (STs) to reduce the impact of high energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. The purpose of this paper is to identify the main STs adopted to improve energy performance of existing building. A detailed literature review on the nature and characteristics of SU and the technologies adopted was undertaken as part of the overall methodology. A survey, based on questionnaire with all the STs adopted was administered to professionals in the sustainability industry in Australia. The results from statistical analyses of the survey responses show a total of 21 technologies which are mostly adopted. A factor analysis shows the main components as: Lighting and automation, HAVC, envelope, renewable energy, HVAC equipment, and Passive technologies."
