---
SCOPUS_ID: 85071863082
Title: "Energy performance of air conditioned buildings based on short-term weather forecast"
Author: "Ignjatović M.G."
Journal: "E3S Web of Conferences"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2019-08-13T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2019
DOI: "10.1051/e3sconf/201911104045"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "University of Niš"
Affiliation Country: "Serbia"
Cited by count: 1
---

## Abstract
"One of the possible ways to improve balance between building energy consumption and occupant thermal comfort in existing buildings is to use simulation-assisted operation of HVAC systems. Simulation-assisted operation can be formulated as a type of operation that implements knowledge of future disturbance acting on the building and that enables operating the systems in such a way to fulfill given goals, which in nature can often be contradictory. The most important future conditions on building energy consumption are weather parameters and occupant behavior and expectations of thermal environment. In order to achieve this type of operation, optimization methods must be applied. Methodology to create HVAC system operation strategies on a daily basis is presented. Methodology is based on using building energy performance simulation software EnergyPlus, available weather data, global sensitivity analysis, and custom developed software with particle swarm optimization method applied over the moving horizon. Global sensitivity analysis is used in order to reduce number of independent variables for the optimization process. The methodology is applied to office part of real combined-type building located in Niš, Serbia. Use of sensitivity analysis shows that the reduced number of independent variables for the optimization would lead to similar thermal comfort and energy consumption, with significant computer runtime reduction."
