---
SCOPUS_ID: 85086265877
Title: "Experimental Study to Evaluate the Impact of Insulation with Radiative Shield on the Performance of Panel-Based Radiant Cooling System"
Author: "Srivastava P."
Journal: "Smart Innovation, Systems and Technologies"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2020-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2020
DOI: "10.1007/978-981-15-2647-3_7"
Source Type: "Book Series"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Chitkara University, Punjab"
Affiliation Country: "India"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"HVAC systems consume significant amount of energy in buildings to maintain thermal comfort. To make buildings energy efficient, it is desirable to develop alternative low-energy means to achieve cooling without compromising thermal comfort in the buildings. Radiant cooling system has proved to consume less energy with enhanced indoor air quality as compared to conventional air system. The main thrust of this research is to enhance the performance of radiant panels by restricting the heat transfer of panels from the exposed roof. In this study, we have experimentally estimated the impact of insulation with radiative shield on the cooling performance of radiant cooling panel system in terms of peak power and energy consumption. Effect of variation of internal load is analyzed by varying the zone sensible load. We have considered two cases: (i) Conventional panel-based radiant cooling system is used and (ii) radiant panels were insulated from the top using nitrile rubber with radiative shield. Roof is directly exposed to ambient condition, roof absorbs high heat gains, and this heat is transferred to room interior zone by re-radiation, which increases the thermal load on cooling system from the top. Radiant cooling panel system receives maximum amount of heat by re-radiation from the roof. Applying thermal insulation with radiation reflective shield increases the thermal performance of radiant cooling panel system, and the insulated panels show 30% reduction in thermal load and 20% electrical energy saving compared to conventional radiant panel."
