---
SCOPUS_ID: 85082668382
Title: "Algorithm for demand response to maximize the penetration of renewable energy"
Author: "Hadi A.A."
Journal: "IEEE Access"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2020-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2020
DOI: "10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2981877"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Texas A&amp;M University"
Affiliation Country: "United States"
Cited by count: 58
---

## Abstract
"Buildings are becoming smarter through the deployment of intelligent and energy-efficient technologies that reduce energy consumption while making buildings easier to manage and operate. Demand for lighting systems, efficient heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC), as well as other types of hardware such as controls and sub-meters, is growing rapidly that needs more attention in terms of the energy efficiency. Moreover, the energy management of micro-generation or poly-generation system has always been very complex. Keeping the balance between demand and production is a challenging task for researchers. This paper investigates a simple yet very effective and intelligent demand response algorithm to mitigate the intermittency problem, providing an uninterrupted power supply to the users. The developed algorithm is fully capable of balancing the consumption and the production by controlling the user pre-defined load patterns that is based on the state of charge (SOC) of the storage system. The algorithm is tested on a microgrid system that consists of different loads, six photovoltaic (PV) solar panels, a small wind turbine system, and a set of lead-acid battery banks. The experimental result shows the maximum use of renewable energy while reducing the peak demand, cost of end-users and low or no carbon emissions. To achieve a significant reduction in energy consumption as well as to keep the balance between production and demand, this algorithm can be implemented for the efficient use of intermittent renewable energy sources."
