---
SCOPUS_ID: 85090063233
Title: "Energy-efficient retrofitting strategies for healthcare facilities in hot-humid climate: Parametric and economical analysis"
Author: "William M.A."
Journal: "Alexandria Engineering Journal"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2020-12-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2020
DOI: "10.1016/j.aej.2020.08.011"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "College of Engineering and Technology"
Affiliation Country: "Egypt"
Cited by count: 17
---

## Abstract
"All living beings depend on energy for survival, and modern civilizations will continue to thrive only if existing sources of energy can be developed to meet the growing demand. With the universal urge to reduce power usage in the building environment, there are broad discrepancies between energy efficiency intention and the realistic operation of buildings. Implementing current mitigation strategies tends to be gradual and requires a ‘whole-system’ approach to the issue. In Egyptian buildings, energy demand increased dramatically with the increasing necessity to acquire indoor thermal comfort conditions. Simultaneous growth in residential and commercial developments necessitate increasing power production to face new demands. Energy needs in facilities are growing annually due to the expansion in HVAC (Heating, Ventilation & Air Conditioning) systems operating hours. Minimizing power demand and encouraging the use of green energy sources, protecting the planet from global warming impacts, and depleting the ozone layer is beneficial. High temperatures and high humidity levels in hot and humid climate zones such as Alexandria in Egypt cause human discomfort, resulting in high HVAC energy consumption. Apart from medical equipment, power, and infection controls, hospitals utilize substantial amounts of HVAC energy. To clarify Egyptian hospitals ' energy consumption, the on-going case study is conducted on a hospital accessible to the researcher at Alexandria, Egypt. The purpose of this study is to explore medical facilities' energy requirements and to assess the possible energy savings of present buildings in Egypt. Using the DesignBuilder simulator platform, a prototype was built for medical institution underdevelopment. Depending on the hospital's construction, mechanical consultants’ documentation, and EUI, the model is validated. Firstly, the initial model is adjusted to the latest outdoor design conditions and weather database information endorsed by ASHRAE (American Heating, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning Engineers Society) and NREL (National Renewable Energy Laboratory). Analysis of energy-efficient methods influencing yearly HVAC power utilization and total building power is examined. The analysis gives information about the increase in energy efficiency in medical institutions achieving thermal comfort in Alexandria that would allow designers to sufficiently limit buildings ' energy consumption. For the autonomous temperature and moisture control and influence on the HVAC system, a DOAS (Dedicated Outdoor Air Systems) was introduced asserting substantial energy-savings for both HVAC and the entire building electricity utilization. The study reveals that about 67% energy savings and operating costs can be achieved through efficient retrofitting and systems right sizing. Through economic analysis, this study provides new energy opportunities for new medical facilities in hot-humid climatic regions."
