---
SCOPUS_ID: 85090526093
Title: "Design considerations for updating Toronto's transportation operation centre (TOC)"
Author: "Huang S.Q."
Journal: "2016 Transportation Association of Canada's Conference and Exhibition, TAC 2016"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2016-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2016
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "City of Toronto"
Affiliation Country: "Canada"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"The City of Toronto's Transportation Operation Centre (TOC) has been in place since January 1994. There were no major upgrades to the facilities over the past 20 years. The utilities and equipment were aging and required replacement and upgrade in order to improve work efficiency, capacity and productivity, and bring cost savings through reduction of power consumption and reduction of maintenance costs. The renovation program was initiated in October 2012 and completed in July 2014. In order to suit both the current and projected functional needs of TOC operations, the project management team applied various technical approaches to ensure the operational expectations were met-these included ergonomic analysis, HVAC capacity evaluation, equipment layout, visibility assessment, lighting and furniture requirement validation, etc. This paper addresses the key architectural and engineering design aspects for the TOC renovation. It provides details on analysing the TOC operational needs to determine the optimum layout, size of display wall, the most effective use of the display wall and display wall technology to fit into a confined space. It also discusses the use of 3D modelling techniques to assess the view distance and angle for video wall placement, and lighting design. A comprehensive capacity analysis for heating, ventilating and air conditioning system was conducted to ensure a high quality of air circulation and employee comfort. A holistic solution of network architecture topology as part of this program to satisfy the needs of both Corporate IT and Traffic Management Centre is also discussed."
