---
SCOPUS_ID: 85097683819
Title: "The utilisation of useful ambient energy in residential dwellings to improve thermal comfort and reduce energy consumption"
Author: "Rashad M."
Journal: "International Journal of Thermofluids"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-02-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.1016/j.ijft.2020.100059"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Brunel University London"
Affiliation Country: "United Kingdom"
Cited by count: 28
---

## Abstract
"Energy consumption in the housing sector, is significantly high and continues to escalate. Urbanisation due to population growth and migration from rural areas to cities are two main reasons for this rising demand. With the uncertainty in the energy market and the increasing awareness of the impact of fossil fuels on the environment, research work in efficient building design has gained momentum. Energy conservation guidelines in many countries have become mandatory. Howerver, more emphasis has been given to commercial, institutional, governmental and industrial buildings, which commonly employ more efficient HVAC systems than those deployed in houses. Thus, the push towards energy conservation in the residential sector is less noticeable. This is further compounded with the absence of will power to enforce the same energy conservation rules as the case with other sectors. In this paper five passive cooling and heating strategies have been reviewed (passive building design, night ventilation, nocturnal cooling, PCM (Phase Change Material) and IEC (Indirect Evaporative Cooling), solar thermal energy). The aim is to evaluate how to implement them better in a cost-effective way in existing and new houses. The literature review confirmed the need for further investigation of energy efficient HVAC systems with passives strategies solutions for contemporary residential dwellings is required to make a meaningful impact on the energy map of this sector. Also, the viability of an easy to deploy and configure HVAC system for retrofit and new applications for more benefits of these passive strategies either individually or in a hybrid configuration needs to be explored."
