---
SCOPUS_ID: 85103534619
Title: "HVAC's Role in the Decarbonisation of the Existing BuildingStock-Case Finland"
Author: "Vainio T."
Journal: "E3S Web of Conferences"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-03-29T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.1051/e3sconf/202124613005"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Teknologian Tutkimuskeskus VTT"
Affiliation Country: "Finland"
Cited by count: 1
---

## Abstract
"The Energy Performance of Buildings Directive together with the Energy Efficiency Directive and Renewable Energy Sources Directive define the frame and target state for energy performance of the existing building stock. This should be very energy efficient and decarbonised by 2050. The Finnish target is more ambitious, to achieve the target state already in 2035. In this paper, we discuss and concretise the role of HVAC in overcoming the challenge. Buildings in the Nordic countries are already very energy efficient. Structural improvements of energy efficiency are relatively expensive and have limited potential for energy saving. The best cost-benefit ratio can be obtained by combining HVAC with dynamic building automation systems. Also the EPBD calls for improvement of building automation systems and related measurements in new as well as existing buildings. The performance of buildings can be verified and deviations can be detected by monitoring-based commissioning during their life cycle. This means that special attention must be paid to the instrumentation level and an improved online reporting system for stakeholders. As a conclusion, we see that HVAC systems are in a key role in decarbonisation of existing buildings and a strategic sector on the way to a carbon-neutral society."
