---
SCOPUS_ID: 85110258449
Title: "A comprehensive review of dehumidifiers and regenerators for liquid desiccant air conditioning system"
Author: "Gurubalan A."
Journal: "Energy Conversion and Management"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-07-15T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.1016/j.enconman.2021.114234"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "re"
Document Type Description: "Review"
Affiliation: "University of Saskatchewan"
Affiliation Country: "Canada"
Cited by count: 33
---

## Abstract
"Liquid desiccant air conditioning systems (LDAS) are an energy-efficient and eco-friendly alternative to conventional air conditioning systems. The performance of a LDAS significantly depends on its simultaneous heat and mass transfer components, namely dehumidifier and regenerator. These components are referred to as liquid desiccant energy exchangers (LDEEs) since the working fluids (air and desiccant) exchange both heat and moisture. There has been a lot of research on LDEEs over the last two decades to improve their performance, thereby enhancing the efficiency of the LDAS. The main objective of this comprehensive review paper is to summarize the developments of LDEEs. The desiccant material, and design, operating, and performance parameters of LDEEs are explained in detail. Even though a lot of research has been done on LDEEs, they are not much utilized in the practical heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems. To address this issue, future research should prioritize its focus on (i) practical problems of LDEEs such as cross contamination, and leakage and blockage of the membrane, (ii) long term performance study in the practical systems, (iii) noncorrosive and inexpensive solution, (iv) compatible material for efficient heat and mass transfer, and (v) generalized design and performance control methodology. The discussions presented in this communication will be useful to ascertain the crucial research gaps that need to be addressed by future research studies."
