---
SCOPUS_ID: 85144616794
Title: "PACMAN - Physics-Aware Control MANager for HVAC"
Author: "Nagarathinam S."
Journal: "BuildSys 2022 - Proceedings of the 2022 9th ACM International Conference on Systems for Energy-Efficient Buildings, Cities, and Transportation"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2022-11-09T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2022
DOI: "10.1145/3563357.3564052"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Indian Institute of Technology Madras"
Affiliation Country: "India"
Cited by count: 2
---

## Abstract
"Indoor user thermal comfort mainly depends upon air temperature, humidity, and wall temperature. Commonly used proportional-integral-derivative (PID) controllers use air temperature alone as feedback to control building Heating, Ventilation, and Air-Conditioning (HVAC) equipment. This may result in sub-optimal energy consumption or user comfort. Model Predictive Controllers (MPC) improve over PID control, but are limited by the accuracy of the underlying thermal model. Black-box (data-driven) and grey-box (data+domain-driven) thermal models may handle non-linear building thermal dynamics, but require extensive data and may not adhere to physical constraints. We complement existing works with PACMAN-an MPC approach that uses Physics-Informed Neural Network (PINN)-based thermal models to estimate humidity and wall temperature in addition to air temperature. We first adapt PINNs to building HVAC control by overcoming the limitation of the original PINN formulation. Specifically, we build a PINN thermal model that can handle time-dependent exogenous (ambient temperature) and control (setpoint) inputs through a time resetting strategy. We then demonstrate the use of a PINN thermal model in MPC with a receding horizon. We evaluate PACMAN using a simulated environment along two dimensions: 1) thermal model accuracy; and 2) control efficacy. As a baseline for the thermal model, we use a data-driven LSTM model. As baselines for the control, we use an as-is PID controller with fixed and seasonal temperature setpoints; oracle MPC without any thermal model errors; and MPC with an LSTM model. We find that the PINN thermal models improve errors over LSTM by an order of magnitude; and generalize better to out-of-distribution data. PACMAN reduces the annual energy consumption by 16% and the percentage of yearly discomfort hours by 26% points over as-is PID control with a fixed setpoint."
