---
SCOPUS_ID: 85146352917
Title: "The Benefits and Challenges of Implementing Smart Labs in a Multipurpose Research Laboratory Building: Undertaking a Pilot Project at Sandia National Laboratories"
Author: "Backlund C.J."
Journal: "ACS Chemical Health and Safety"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2022-07-25T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2022
DOI: "10.1021/acs.chas.2c00011"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Sandia National Laboratories, New Mexico"
Affiliation Country: "United States"
Cited by count: 2
---

## Abstract
"Globally, organizations are preparing for future climate security and energy efficiency challenges. Sandia National Laboratories, a U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Federally Funded National Research and Development Center, is no different. Sandia is committed to finding ways to provide safe and flexible laboratory space for research and development (R&D) personnel while building a robust program of energy stewardship. This is not an easy balance, as new construction and land acquisition costs can be prohibitive, and solutions must be found in upgrading older buildings. As one of the country's premier research laboratories, Sandia's R&D goals are dynamic, and its laboratory spaces must be flexible enough to support a variety of disciplines and changing mission objectives while providing important engineered controls for worker safety. Especially crucial are ventilation and air supply systems designed to protect personnel from airborne chemical and biological hazards. To explore how to achieve these goals in older buildings, Sandia implemented a pilot project at its Albuquerque campus and has completed Phase 1. The process is based on the Smart Labs methodology which is part of the federal government's long-term strategy on climate and energy use [U.S. Department of Energy. Better Buildings Initiative. https://betterbuildingssolutioncenter.energy.gov/smart-labs-accelerator-toolkit]. Through Phase 1 of the pilot project, Sandia learned the value of collaborating between various stakeholders including Facilities; environmental, safety, and health; and the occupants. Other key lessons were the importance of organization, access to building documents, and managing change. The Phase 1 results provided a scope of work for further evaluation and commencement of Phase 2 for building optimization."
