---
SCOPUS_ID: 85158864176
Title: "Thermal modeling of existing buildings in high-fidelity simulators: A novel, practical methodology"
Author: "Borja-Conde J.A."
Journal: "Energy and Buildings"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2023-08-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2023
DOI: "10.1016/j.enbuild.2023.113127"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Universidad de Sevilla"
Affiliation Country: "Spain"
Cited by count: 1
---

## Abstract
"Optimizing efficiency in the operation of the HVAC system of existing buildings requires the construction of a thermal dynamic model of the building, which may be challenging because architectural metadata may be missing or obsolete. Based on a suitable set of measured data, this paper presents a novel practical methodology to create and automatically derive thermal models of existing buildings in high-fidelity simulators for energy management. To this end, the philosophy of grey-box strategies is followed to simplify the modeling and avoid the requirement of architectural metadata, facilitating and expediting the process. First, a building model with a highly reduced number of parameters is constructed by exploiting the existing similarities in the materials of the buildings and simplifying their elements to a simple one-layer parameterization. Then, the parameters of the derived model are iteratively updated while minimizing the error between the real temperature evolution and that generated by the model being identified. For this purpose, data of the room air temperature, estimated occupancy, weather conditions, and variables of the HVAC system are assumed to be available in suitable zones of the building to apply the creation and identification processes of the model, allowing that a whole digital twin of the building is constructed. The methodology is presented by its application to a real case study: the Nimbus Research Centre building at Munster Technological University, located in Cork (Ireland). The high-fidelity simulator software TRNSYS is used for the modeling task, together with the GenOpt optimization program. The results demonstrate that the proposed methodology yields a highly accurate model of the building, capable of representing reality with RMSE values consistently below 0.6C∘ during open-loop validation periods of up to four days. The findings suggest that this methodology may outperform other modeling techniques reported in the literature. Importantly, the proposed technique is less complex and time-consuming to implement than many of the alternatives."
