---
SCOPUS_ID: 85151547878
Title: "Developing a Simplified Methodology for Simulating Energy Performance of Buildings with Thermally Activated Building Systems"
Author: "Sharifi M."
Journal: "Building Simulation Conference Proceedings"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2022-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2022
DOI: "10.26868/25222708.2021.30540"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Universiteit Gent"
Affiliation Country: "Belgium"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"Detailed building models allow the HVAC designers to find optimal solutions. However, more complexity in modelling will also result in more efforts for the designers in the component sizing procedure specially when the optimal design of the system is highly depended on the control system. In Thermally Activated Building Systems (TABS), which are embedded pipes in the concrete of the building structure, the role of control is pivotal and thus the control has to be simulated during the design. Therefore, the building model and optimal control has to be coupled to an optimisation algorithm for optimal component sizing. This results in a computationally heavy design procedure. This paper addresses the need for a for a simplified methodology for modelling building with TABS. The dynamic heating and cooling loads of the building is calculated by a white-box detailed Modelica model and later used in an equivalent simplified resistor-capacitor (RC) model. The simplified model was developed by the grey-box approach and the parameters of RC model were estimated by inverse modelling approach. The methodology was applied on three different case studies and the results imply that the developed methodology can be confidently coupled to an optimal control algorithm to be used for sizing HVAC components optimally."
