---
SCOPUS_ID: 85164012847
Title: "Amount of heat available from a prosumer of a 5<sup>th</sup> generation district heating and cooling (5GDHC) system: Case study of a data center"
Author: "Chicherin S."
Journal: "Journal of Building Engineering"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2023-10-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2023
DOI: "10.1016/j.jobe.2023.107138"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Vrije Universiteit Brussel"
Affiliation Country: "Belgium"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"The research problem is no method to estimate the specifications of a data center when no design data is available. The aim is to check capacities and temperature levels to supply energy to a 5th generation district heating and cooling (5GDHC) system. The methodology includes studying satellite images and design documents of similar projects. Ventilation chambers, roof-top units (RTUs), dry coolers, and free cooling chillers are recognized on satellite images. We study the layout of the heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) system, technological limitations, and server and cooling loads. The results suggest excluding RTUs, adding adjusting factors to dry coolers, and investment costs for the conversion from air to water cooling. Chillers and fan coil units operate in partial load mode to ensure the reliability level. Waste heat varies, although server power consumption remains constant. The configuration to utilize the waste heat is suggested. It includes a separate free-cooling heat exchanger, which allows turning off the compressors when the outdoor temperature drops. Variable supply and return temperatures compensate for the variation in outdoor temperature. In summer, the return temperature is high enough to supply heat directly to the 5GDHC network. In winter, heat pump boosting is necessary; the preferable outdoor temperatures are 0–10 °C. The implication is that water cooling increases data center feasibility as a prosumer for 5GDHC. The novelty is a method to assess how much energy is possible to recuperate; specific energy consumption/production is justified. The value is the solution to further decarbonize the energy industry and increase energy efficiency is suggested."
