---
SCOPUS_ID: 85179624445
Title: "Edge Analytics Solution for Online Monitoring of Building Operations Data"
Author: "Williams W.R."
Journal: "2023 10th International Conference on Internet of Things: Systems, Management and Security, IOTSMS 2023"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2023-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2023
DOI: "10.1109/IOTSMS59855.2023.10325815"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "U.S. Army Engineer Research and Development Center"
Affiliation Country: "United States"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"Edge based analytics solutions are an essential part of the continued shift towards creating efficient and secure IoT systems to support growing needs across every industry. These analytics often utilize machine learning models to provide informed feedback on the data being generated. As these IoT and edge systems continue to grow, the amount of data being generated is also growing exponentially. Utilizing compute heavy analytics poses many difficulties, especially in harsh environments that restrict the amount and quality of resources available to these systems. To address this, some proposed analytics solutions allow for more efficient use of these restricted systems. This paper is an investigation and implementation of one of these solutions, the QUANTS monitoring algorithm, on building operations data. This data is from many types of sensors throughout a buildings HVAC system and provides a variety of different data types to allow the QUANTS algorithm's capability with heterogenous data to be displayed. Alterations to the proposed algorithm made during this investigation were made to allow for a more decentralized method. This evaluation of the QUANTS algorithm demonstrates an efficient use of simple resources to support online monitoring and anomaly detection of heterogenous data."
