---
SCOPUS_ID: 85175305249
Title: "Performance Evaluation of an Occupancy-Based HVAC Control System in an Office Building †"
Author: "Lin G."
Journal: "Energies"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2023-10-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2023
DOI: "10.3390/en16207088"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Tsinghua University"
Affiliation Country: "China"
Cited by count: 1
---

## Abstract
"As new algorithms incorporate occupancy count information into more sophisticated HVAC control, these technologies offer great potential for reductions in energy costs while enhancing flexibility. This study presents results from a two-year field evaluation of an occupancy-based HVAC control system installed in an office building. Two wings on each of the building’s 2–11 floors were equipped with occupancy counters to learn occupancy patterns. In combination with proprietary machine learning algorithms and thermal modeling, the occupancy data were leveraged to implement optimized start, early closure, and adjustments to fan operation at the air handling unit (AHU) level. This study conducted a holistic evaluation of technical performance, cost-effectiveness analysis, and user satisfaction. Results show the platform reduced weekday AHU run times by 2 h and 35 min per AHU per day during the pandemic time period. Simulation shows that 6.1% annual whole-building savings can be achieved when the building is fully occupied. The results are compared with prior studies, and potential drivers are discussed for future opportunities. The assessment results shed light on the expected in-the-field performance for researchers and industry stakeholders and enabled practical considerations as the technology strives to move beyond research-grade pilot trials into product-grade deployment."
