---
SCOPUS_ID: 85181930259
Title: "Efficient management of HVAC systems through coordinated operation of parallel chiller units: An economic predictive control approach"
Author: "Borja-Conde J.A."
Journal: "Energy and Buildings"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2024-02-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2024
DOI: "10.1016/j.enbuild.2023.113879"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Universidad de Sevilla"
Affiliation Country: "Spain"
Cited by count: 1
---

## Abstract
"In developed countries, air conditioning systems have become major contributors to energy consumption in buildings. Cooling installations made up of independent chiller units connected in parallel pose a challenge in finding the most energy-efficient management strategy. This article proposes a novel economic model predictive control strategy to optimize the operation of multiple-chiller HVAC systems according to an economic cost comprising energy consumption as well as a thermal comfort index. Provided that the gradient of the economic cost function can be calculated or estimated, the proposed controller only entails the solution of a single quadratic programming (QP) problem at each sampling period, reducing computational requirements and thus facilitating the deployment on commercial embedded HVAC management platforms. The proposed controller improves economic performance. As our numerical analysis shows, optimal sequencing is achieved for the case of dual-chiller plants. Moreover, the controller adapts to possible variations in the economic criteria, enabling the system to respond to changes in electricity price and user preferences. A realistic case study, using a high fidelity model of a building simulated in TRNSYS, demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed methodology. In particular, the proposed controller demonstrates to be more efficient than state-of-the-art QP-based economic predictive controllers in achieving a reduction of the energy consumption up to 5.19%, which is in line with the targeted reduction of 7.9% by 2030 in the EU Green Deal's ‘Fit for 55’ package."
