---
SCOPUS_ID: 85184999039
Title: "Fostering Innovation and Exploring the Potential of IoT Assisted Air Conditioning Control System for Industrial Energy Saving"
Author: "Praveena J."
Journal: "IEEE 9th International Conference on Smart Structures and Systems, ICSSS 2023"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2023-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2023
DOI: "10.1109/ICSSS58085.2023.10407955"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Prince Shri Venkateshwara Padmavathy Engineering College"
Affiliation Country: "India"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"This paper details the planning and construction of an effective Heating and Air Conditioning Systems (HVAC) control system that, in response to an industrial building's occupancy level, determines the optimal number of HVAC units to run. The objectives of this research set out to automate the process of reducing electric power waste in industrial building settings, including but not limited to homes, offices, and schools, by making use of simple control methods and low-cost electronic components. In this study, we ran a battery of experiments to find out what the sweet spot is for a cooling control setup. We showcase the smart control system's hardware implementation and evaluate its performance. Right now, there isn't an intelligent control system for air conditioning that can cut energy consumption to perfection. Also lacking is adequate regulation of indoor temperature and humidity. This led to the development of an IoT-based intelligent air conditioning control system. A few components that make up the system's hardware are the access layer, wireless communication component, execution management framework, sensor that is being tested and system administration platform. Sophisticated interior air conditioner degree control via remote technique, communication level architecture as well as monitoring control layout are all components of the system. Based on the findings from the experiment, the computerized air conditioning unit has a more precise and energy-efficient control effect, an increased level of the switch and enhanced comfort. Within the industrial unit, the suggested system has better moisture and temperature control. The proposed IoT assisted Air Conditioning Control System (IoTACCS) is a better choice to manage the industrial HVAC as well as residence and provide an excellent power saving pathway to industries/residence. The proposed model IoTACCS is cross-validated with the conventional Air Conditioning Control System (ACCS) approach to evaluate the efficiency and performance of the proposed model in clear manner and the resulting section shows the proper proof to it."
