---
SCOPUS_ID: 85077226762
Title: "Modeling and controlling of temperature and humidity in building heating, ventilating, and air conditioning system using model predictive control"
Author: "Bahramnia P."
Journal: "Energies"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2019-12-17T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2019
DOI: "10.3390/en12244805"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Islamic Azad University, Science and Research Branch"
Affiliation Country: "Iran"
Cited by count: 30
---

## Abstract
"Nowadays, by huge improvements in industrial control and the necessity of efficient energy consumption for buildings, unified managing systems are established to monitor and control mechanical equipment and energy usage. One of the main portions of the building management system (BMS) is the cooling and heating equipment called heating and ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC). Based on temperature slow dynamic and presented uncertainty in modeling, a model predictive control (MPC) strategy to track both temperature and humidity is proposed in this study. The main goal of this study is to provide a framework to describe temperature and humidity elements required for dynamic modeling. Following that, by utilizing a predictive approach, a control strategy is obtained, which optimizes the tracking error of two interactional channel and performs the effort control by minimizing the optimization index. Other articles have mostly only had control over the temperature variable, but in our article, we tried to study the equations of temperature and humidity as well as their interference and according to the ASHRAE standard, both temperature and humidity controls must be accurate. The humidity was the novelty in our article. Simulation results proved the effectiveness of the proposed approach compared to the conventional proportional-integral controller. Evidently, the key idea behind the control objective is providing the comfort condition while consuming the least possible energy."
