---
SCOPUS_ID: 85099408840
Title: "Development of Inverse Greybox Model-Based Virtual Meters for Air Handling Units"
Author: "Darwazeh D."
Journal: "IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.1109/TASE.2020.3005888"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Carleton University"
Affiliation Country: "Canada"
Cited by count: 8
---

## Abstract
"Energy submetering at the equipment level provides a tool to identify energy use anomalies and detect operational inefficiencies. While physical meters can be costly and difficult to install, virtual meters (VMs) overcome practical issues associated with physical meters and provide insights into critical unmeasured quantities. This article introduces an inverse greybox model-based virtual metering method to estimate the energy in an air handling unit (AHU). Models that represent the components typically found in AHUs are formulated using a data set from a highly instrumented AHU and combined into an integrated greybox model. The use of the integrated model to create VMs is demonstrated by using a data set from an independent AHU located in a large office building in Ottawa, ON, Canada. Model parameters are estimated by using the genetic algorithm and used in creating VMs that can estimate the heat supplied/extracted at the AHU level. In addition, the model is used to estimate a monthly average outdoor air fraction used by the AHU. The potential of the component models and VMs to detect operational inefficiencies and support operational decisions is demonstrated through illustrative examples. Note to Practitioners - This article presents a novel virtual metering algorithm to estimate the heating and cooling energy at the air handling unit (AHU) level. This virtual metering algorithm fills a gap in the literature and provides a tool that will help detect and interpret energy use anomalies, identify operational inefficiencies, and guide on-going commissioning of building energy systems. Facility managers, operators, and other stakeholders can use the insights gained from virtual metering to improve building operational performance. Future planned research includes developing virtual meters to characterize energy flows at the zone level and visualization methods to make inverse modeling results more accessible to different building stakeholders."
