---
SCOPUS_ID: 85099595974
Title: "An Improved Technique for Energy-Efficient Starting and Operating Control of Single Phase Induction Motors"
Author: "Almani M.N."
Journal: "IEEE Access"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3050920"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore"
Affiliation Country: "Pakistan"
Cited by count: 12
---

## Abstract
"The recent increase in electricity prices and the usage of single-phase induction motors (SPIMs) provide a stimulus for a focused research on energy-efficient optimization of SPIM load such as air-conditioners and refrigerators. Variable speed control of SPIM provides a promising way forward to reduce its power consumption. However, during variable speed operation under the popular constant $V/f$ method, SPIM is required to operate at non-rated conditions. The operation of SPIM at non-rated conditions disturbs its symmetrical and balanced operation, thus degrading its efficiency. Moreover, soft-starting of SPIM at non-rated conditions is also challenging due to the resulting reduction in starting-torque. In this article, after a detailed analysis of SPIM energy-efficiency, an improved sensor-less optimal speed control strategy is developed to enable the symmetrical and balanced operation of SPIM at all the operating points over the entire speed-range to improve its performance. A novel algorithm, termed as the phase-shift algorithm, is also devised for efficient implementation of the proposed optimal speed control strategy. In addition, a unique framework for efficient soft-starting of SPIM at very low frequencies is also developed. The simulation-based results of the motor operated through the proposed phase-shift algorithm validate the energy-saving potential of the proposed control strategy."
