---
SCOPUS_ID: 85102917171
Title: "Cooling energy use reduction in residential buildings in egypt accounting for global warming effects"
Author: "Abdollah M.A.F."
Journal: "Climate"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-03-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.3390/cli9030045"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Politecnico di Milano"
Affiliation Country: "Italy"
Cited by count: 4
---

## Abstract
"Residential and commercial buildings are responsible for almost 50% of the total electricity consumption in Egypt. This percentage is expected to increase due to the global warming effect. This work deals with the cooling energy use reduction strategies for residential buildings compatible with the Egyptian market accounting for the global warming effects. A study in the Egyptian market was done to explore the best available technologies in the Egyptian market. A series of dynamic simulations were executed in each city to optimize the building envelope using the best available technologies to reduce the cooling needs. Financial, energetic and environmental factors were taken into consideration, and comparative analysis was done to assess the best alternatives. The double wall with air gap and insulation on the outside was found to be the best alternative in all the cities. Moreover, simple measures to further reduce the cooling energy need were explored, such as the usage of more efficient lighting and night ventilation. This work led to an average reduction of 40% in the cooling energy needs and CO2 emissions across the three cities, with a maximum discounted payback period down to 6.3 years. Future weather files adapted to climate change were generated, and the selected passive strategies were tested to assess the validity of such strategies in the future. The cooling energy needs are expected to increase by 39%, while the peak cooling loads are also expected to increase by 23% by 2080, rendering the current installed HVAC systems undersized."
