---
SCOPUS_ID: 85110444521
Title: "Development of residential use profile by single young adults and energy saving plans for them"
Author: "Kim B.R."
Journal: "Journal of the Architectural Institute of Korea"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.5659/JAIK.2021.37.6.169"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: nan
Affiliation Country: nan
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"Recently studio apartments for singles increase fast. However, legacy residential use profile for family is still used for evaluating energy performance ratings of the studio apartment. For reasonable and widely agreeable energy performance evaluations, residential use profile by singles must be suggested. This study suggests architectural overview and HVAC system specifications of studio apartment for singles as well as residential use profile, in particular, for single young adults via market survey, statistics, and literature reviews. Then the suggested use profile for single young adults is compared with the residential use profile of the Building Energy Efficiency Certification and that of the ECO-CE3, a certified energy audit tool for existing buildings. Heating and cooling energy demands, building loads, and energy uses by the three profiles are also compared when they are topped on the studio apartment. For the comparison, an energy model based on DIN V 18599 is developed. Also energy performance and billing gap between an actual studio apartment and the developed model is analyzed. Finally, this study wraps with suggesting energy efficiency measures for studio apartments."
