---
SCOPUS_ID: 85117752798
Title: "Design of a fuzzy based system for automatic heating, ventilation and cooling in home"
Author: "Sheela A."
Journal: "12th International Conference on Advances in Computing, Control, and Telecommunication Technologies, ACT 2021"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Kongu Engineering College"
Affiliation Country: "India"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"The indoor and vehicular environmental comfort equipment is heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC). Its purpose is to provide thermal comfort and reasonable quality of indoor air. A right-sized HVAC device can provide the desired convenience and operate effectively. The correct size of the HVAC system is the choice of equipment and the configuration of the air distribution system to meet the house's expected specific heating and cooling loads. The HVAC system starts with an accurate understanding of the space heating and cooling loads. This helps in residential structures, such as single family homes, apartment buildings, hotels and senior living facilities, medium to large industrial and office buildings, where temperature and humidity are controlled by safe and stable building conditions, using fresh outdoor air. There are many approaches that can be used to achieve energy-efficient HVAC systems, considering the rapid developments in science and technology today. A good understanding of building comfort conditions is important in order to establish efficient systems. All about human satisfaction with their thermal environment is thermal comfort The cornerstone for a comfortable indoor climate is the maintenance of optimum temperature and air circulation. The HVAC (Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning) system plays this role. Both heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems account for 60% of the overall energy usage in the world, which calls for sustainable HVAC solutions. Without compromising the services offered by the building in a sustainable manner, the energy usage of buildings must be decreased, thereby ensuring a safe indoor atmosphere for people. In this project, we will adjust the temperature inside the room depending on the ambient temperature to make people feel relaxed, whether the outside temperature is hot or cold. We used Peltier here to verify the refrigeration response and nichrome wire to verify the heating response."
