---
SCOPUS_ID: 85139168137
Title: "Motif-Based Occupancy Prediction for Energy Efficiency in HVAC"
Author: "Al Mohammad A."
Journal: "2022 3rd International Conference on Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, PRML 2022"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2022-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2022
DOI: "10.1109/PRML56267.2022.9882198"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "University of Detroit Mercy"
Affiliation Country: "United States"
Cited by count: 1
---

## Abstract
"Heat, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems account for the majority of energy consumption in buildings. People's behavior and occupancy patterns differ greatly from day to day and even seasonally, which is a major obstacle when it comes to reducing energy consumption in HVAC systems through building management systems. The main goal of occupancy prediction is to come up with a learning algorithm that can learn and then predict occupants' behaviors to control the HVAC system efficiently. In this paper, a motif-based machine learning approach using clustering and classification is proposed to predict occupancy based on Wi-Fi connected devices and other sensors. In the first phase of this study, K-means clustering is utilized to group similar occupancy profiles. Each cluster is given a cluster ID, which is then used as a label for each sample. The labeled samples are then strung together in sequence, creating a motif. The next phase is classification, which predicts the occupancy of the next time shift of fifteen minutes based on motifs. The classification techniques utilized are K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Decision Trees (DT), Support Vector Machines (SVM), and Naive Bayes (NB). The simulations' results on the dataset collected from an academic building indicate that motif-based prediction algorithms based on K-means clustering are better than motifs created by threshold clustering with an accuracy of 94%."
