---
SCOPUS_ID: 85131131476
Title: "Re-considering the energy efficient retrofitting approach to question cost-optimality and nZEB under COVID-19 measures"
Author: "Yılmaz B.Ç."
Journal: "Building and Environment"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2022-07-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2022
DOI: "10.1016/j.buildenv.2022.109227"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Kadir Has Üniversitesi"
Affiliation Country: "Turkey"
Cited by count: 6
---

## Abstract
"The building energy performance has been highly studied in the last decades considering the indoor environmental quality, and sustainability indicators to examine energy-efficient cost-optimal, and nZEB building levels for different building typologies. However, since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, the usage and operation of public spaces and buildings have evolved according to COVID-19 measures produced by the authorities. Social distancing measures and HVAC system measures affecting energy performance and indoor environmental quality of the public buildings are consequently necessary for building energy performance studies. Thereby, it is aimed at re-considering an energy-efficient cost-optimal retrofitting approach for a primary school building case, under the COVID-19 measures to recast an energy-efficient cost-optimal level and apply a cost-efficiency criterion to search for the measures adapted nZEB scenarios. COVID-19 measures affecting building energy performance, such as social distancing and IEQ requirements, were analysed. Then, probable ventilation rates were controlled by the infection probability method to satisfy the limit number for infection. Thus, pre-COVID-19 and post-COVID-19 variables regarding occupancy density and HVAC operation were determined for the calculation process. Besides, retrofit scenarios were shaped to improve optic and thermophysical properties of the façade, lighting, and HVAC systems performance. Then, energy, LCC, thermal comfort and IEQ performance of retrofit scenarios were calculated with a calibrated model. Results were evaluated by applying the cost-efficiency criterion to find out nZEB scenarios. It can be stated that distinct LCC and energy use increments occurred in the cost-optimal range and nZEB level."
