---
SCOPUS_ID: 85150270927
Title: "The adoption of pressure independent control valves (PICVs) for the simultaneous optimization of energy consumption and comfort in buildings"
Author: "Naldi C."
Journal: "Energy and Buildings"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2023-05-15T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2023
DOI: "10.1016/j.enbuild.2023.112969"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Alma Mater Studiorum Università di Bologna"
Affiliation Country: "Italy"
Cited by count: 1
---

## Abstract
"The optimization of energy consumption in buildings’ HVAC systems plays a crucial role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions worldwide. In new and deeply-renovated buildings, characterized by modulating terminal units and aiming at the maximum exploitation of renewables, an accurate hydraulic balance of the distribution network may become critical, resulting in a significant increase of pumping energy consumptions and a deterioration of indoor thermal comfort conditions. In the present paper, we compare the performance of traditional manual balancing valves and new pressure independent control valves (PICVs), used to balance the hydronic loop of HVAC systems. To perform this analysis, a new MATLAB-Simulink model has been specifically developed to simulate the behavior of PICVs and has been used in an application case study. The efficiency of manual and pressure independent control valves is evaluated numerically by simulating a multi-zone distribution network under variable operating conditions and considering different control strategies of the circulating pump. Results show that in off-design conditions, when some of the branches of the hydraulic network are closed, traditional manual balancing valves are not able to guarantee the nominal mass flow rate in the remaining loops. On the contrary, no significant variations of water mass flow rate are observed when PICVs are adopted, even in partial load conditions. Despite their additional cost, PICVs allow to ensure better indoor thermal comfort sensations for individuals, avoiding under/over-heating of rooms and, moreover, yield a decrease of the pump electric consumption with respect to traditional manual balancing valves. In addition, based on the obtained results, general rules concerning the adoption of PICVs are provided, depending on the extension of the hydraulic loop and the adopted pump control logic. The reported results highlight the role that PICVs can play to ensure energy savings in HVAC systems without penalizing users’ indoor comfort conditions."
