---
SCOPUS_ID: 85160273874
Title: "New ventilation design criteria for energy sustainability and indoor air quality in a post Covid-19 scenario"
Author: "Buonomano A."
Journal: "Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2023-08-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2023
DOI: "10.1016/j.rser.2023.113378"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Università degli Studi di Napoli Federico II"
Affiliation Country: "Italy"
Cited by count: 3
---

## Abstract
"The Covid-19 outbreak raised great attention to the importance of indoor air quality in buildings. Even if the Covid-19 epidemic is nearing an end, all stakeholders agree that increasing outside air flow rates is beneficial for decreasing the likelihood of contagion, lowering the risk of future pandemics, and enhancing the general safety of the interior environment. Indeed, diverse concerns raised about whether the ventilation standards in place are still adequate. In this context, this research intends to assess the suitability of current ventilation standards in addressing the current pandemic scenario and to offer novel criteria and guidelines for the design and operation of HVAC systems, as well as useful guidance for the creation of future ventilation standards in a post-Covid-19 scenario. To that end, a comprehensive analysis of the ANSI/ASHRAE 62.1 is carried out, with an emphasis on its effectiveness in reducing the risk of infection. Furthermore, the efficacy of various ventilation strategies in reducing the likelihood of contagion has been investigated. Finally, because building ventilation is inextricably linked to energy consumption, the energy and economic implications of the proposed enhancements have been assessed. To carry out the described analysis, a novel method was developed that combines Building Energy Modelling (BEM) and virus contagion risk assessment. The analyses conducted produced interesting insights and criteria for ventilation system design and operation, as well as recommendations for the development of future standards."
