---
SCOPUS_ID: 85163625317
Title: "Applicability of Deep Learning Algorithms for Predicting Indoor Temperatures: Towards the Development of Digital Twin HVAC Systems"
Author: "Norouzi P."
Journal: "Buildings"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2023-06-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2023
DOI: "10.3390/buildings13061542"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "British Columbia Institute of Technology"
Affiliation Country: "Canada"
Cited by count: 3
---

## Abstract
"The development of digital twins leads to the pathway toward intelligent buildings. Today, the overwhelming rate of data in buildings carries a high amount of information that can provide an opportunity for a digital representation of the buildings and energy optimization strategies in the Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) systems. To implement a successful energy management strategy in a building, a data-driven approach should accurately forecast the HVAC features, in particular the indoor temperatures. Accurate predictions not only increase thermal comfort levels, but also play a crucial role in saving energy consumption. This study aims to investigate the capabilities of data-driven approaches and the development of a model for predicting indoor temperatures. A case study of an educational building is considered to forecast indoor temperatures using machine learning and deep learning algorithms. The algorithms’ performance is evaluated and compared. The important model parameters are sorted out before choosing the best architecture. Considering real data, prediction models are created for indoor temperatures. The results reveal that all the investigated models are successful in predicting indoor temperatures. Hence, the proposed deep neural network model obtained the highest accuracy with an average RMSE of 0.16 °C, which renders it the best candidate for the development of a digital twin."
