---
SCOPUS_ID: 85185194168
Title: "Unsupervised clustering-based domain adaptation for estimating occupancy and recognizing activities in smart buildings"
Author: "Dridi J."
Journal: "Journal of Building Engineering"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2024-05-15T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2024
DOI: "10.1016/j.jobe.2024.108741"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering"
Affiliation Country: "Canada"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"Smart buildings rely on estimating the number of occupants and recognizing their behaviors to provide several benefits such as energy efficiency, HVAC (Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning) systems optimization, and health safety. Examining the behavior and the counts of residents in different building areas can provide efficient management of resources (heating, cooling, lighting), and energy distribution across the building. Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) can exploit Internet of Things (IoT) data, such as power consumption data, to provide occupancy estimation (OE) and activity recognition (AR). Obtaining labeled smart building data can be very challenging because it is costly, sensitive, and time-consuming. Data scarcity is a serious problem for research development since few labeled data samples may lead to weak classifiers that do not satisfy real-world applications. Researchers have examined domain adaptation (DA) approaches to share knowledge from source domains where labeled data is abundant to target domains where labeled is scarce. Furthermore, researchers have considered a particular case of DA which is the unsupervised method that solves the case of unavailability of labeled data in target domains. Most previous research in domain adaptation has focused on minimizing the discrepancy between source and target feature distributions. In this work, we adapt and evaluate deep unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) methods based on clustering (UCDA) to estimate the number of occupants and recognize their activities. We have adapted three methods called Structurally Regularized Deep Clustering (SRDC), Hybrid Structurally Regularized Deep Clustering (H-SRDC), and Distilled Discriminative Clustering for Domain Adaptation (DisClusterDA). We have used OE and AR datasets to evaluate the efficiency of the adapted techniques. The findings, with accuracy up to 99%, make these methods open for potential real-world applications. To further enhance the current research, we have provided the code in the following repository: https://github.com/JawDri/Unsupervised-Clustering-based-DA-for-OE-and-AR.git"
