---
SCOPUS_ID: 85083400785
Title: "Study on the application of reinforcement learning in the operation optimization of HVAC system"
Author: "Yuan X."
Journal: "Building Simulation"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-02-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.1007/s12273-020-0602-9"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Tongji University"
Affiliation Country: "China"
Cited by count: 37
---

## Abstract
"Supervisory control can be used to optimize the HVAC system operation and achieve building energy conservation, while reinforcement learning (RL) is considered as a promising model-free supervisory control method. In this paper, we apply RL algorithm to the operation optimization of air-conditioning (AC) system and propose an innovative RL-based model-free control strategy combining rule-based and RL-based control algorithm as well as complete application process. We use a variable air volume (VAV) air-conditioning system for a single-storey office building as a case study to validate the optimization performance of the RL-based controller. We select control strategies with the rule-based control controller (RBC) and proportional-integral-derivative (PID) controller respectively as the reference cases. The results show that, for the air supply of single zone, the RL controller performs the best in terms of both non-comfortable time and energy costs of AC system after one-year exploration learning. The total energy consumption of AC system reduced by 7.7% and 4.7%, respectively compared with RBC and PID strategies. For the air supply of multi-zone, the performance of RL controller begins to outperform the reference strategies after two-year exploration learning and two-year buffer stage. From the seventh year on, RL controller performs much better in terms of both non-comfortable time and operating costs of AC system, while the operating cost of AC system is reduced by 2.7% to 4.6% compared with the reference strategies. In addition, RL controller is more suitable for small-scale operation optimization problems."
