---
SCOPUS_ID: 85092221031
Title: "Liquid Thermo-Responsive Smart Window Derived from Hydrogel"
Author: "Zhou Y."
Journal: "Joule"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2020-11-18T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2020
DOI: "10.1016/j.joule.2020.09.001"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "School of Materials Science and Engineering"
Affiliation Country: "Singapore"
Cited by count: 207
---

## Abstract
"Buildings account for 40% of global energy consumption, while windows are the least energy-efficient part of buildings. Thermochromic window responds to temperature automatically to regulate the solar transmission solely. In this work, a smart window that combines good thermochromic performance and large thermal energy storage capability was introduced. At lower temperature, the window is transparent to let in the solar transmission; when heated, the window blocks sunlight automatically to cut off solar gain. The added function of heat storage further reduces the energy consumption and shift the electricity load peak to lower price period. This first thermo-responsive liquid encapsulated window panel offers a think-out-of-box strategy, giving unique advantage of easy fabrication, good uniformity, scalability, and soundproofing. Buildings account for 40% of global energy consumption, while windows are the least energy-efficient part of buildings. Conventional smart windows only regulate solar transmission. For the first time, a smart thermochromic window with high thermal energy storage was developed to cut off building energy consumption as demonstrated by experiments and simulations. The first liquid encapsulated glass panel gives unique advantages of high uniformity, easy fabrication, shape independence, scalability, and soundproofing. Buildings account for 40% of global energy consumption, while windows are the least energy-efficient part of buildings. Conventional smart windows only regulate solar transmission. For the first time, we developed high thermal energy storage thermo-responsive smart window (HTEST smart window) by trapping the hydrogel-derived liquid within glasses. The excellent thermo-responsive optical property (90% of luminous transmittance and 68.1% solar modulation) together with outstanding specific heat capacity of liquid gives the HTEST smart window excellent energy conservation performance. Simulations suggested that HTEST window can cut off 44.6% heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) energy consumption compared with the normal glass in Singapore. In outdoor demonstrations, the HTEST smart window showed promising energy-saving performance in summer daytime. Compared with conventional energy-saving glasses, which need expensive equipment, the thermo-responsive liquid-trapped structure offers a disruptive strategy of easy fabrication, good uniformity, and scalability, together with soundproof functionality that opens an avenue for energy-saving buildings and greenhouses."
