---
SCOPUS_ID: 85064152096
Title: "Dynamic energy performance-driven approach for renovation assessment of the danish public school ejerslykkeskolen"
Author: "Jradi M."
Journal: "ECOS 2018 - Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Efficiency, Cost, Optimization, Simulation and Environmental Impact of Energy Systems"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2018-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2018
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Syddansk Universitet"
Affiliation Country: "Denmark"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"An overall building energy modelling and simulation methodology is developed employing a holistic approach and using a dynamic energy performance model, representing various building specifications and characteristics including location and geometry, constructions, loads, occupancy activities and schedules, and various HVAC systems. The detailed model is implemented as a basis for a holistic energy renovation investigation and assessment. The overall building 3D model is developed in Sketchup Pro and the associated energy model is defined extensively in the OpenStudio tool, where the EnergyPlus simulation engine is employed to simulate the building dynamic energy performance. Ejerslykkeskolen, a public school in Odense, Denmark, is considered as a case study to implement the modelling and simulation methodology and assess energy renovation measures, aiming to improve the school energy performance to comply with the BR15 Danish Building Regulations. The school was built in the 1953 with around 8000 m2 spanning across 12 blocks with an energy rating of ‘D’. Based on architectural drawings, design documents, systems inspections, field visits and interviews, the overall dynamic school energy performance model is developed and calibrated using actual measured energy consumption data. Using the model, a parametric analysis is implemented to investigate and assess the impact of various energy renovation measures in different school blocks from the technical, economic and environmental perspectives. It is shown that a deep energy renovation package, with a mix of physical envelope upgrade measures and measures to improve the intelligence of energy systems, could reduce the overall energy consumption by 62.1% along with 57.6% savings on the operational costs and reducing emissions by 63.7 tons of CO2 annually. The deep energy renovation package allows Ejerslykkeskolen to comply with the BR15 Renovation Class 1. The overall assessment carried out will serve as a recommendation aiding the decision to renovate the school by 2018."
