---
SCOPUS_ID: 85091782978
Title: "Comparative costs of ground source heat pump systems against other forms of heating and cooling for different climatic conditions"
Author: "Aditya G.R."
Journal: "Sustainable Energy Technologies and Assessments"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2020-12-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2020
DOI: "10.1016/j.seta.2020.100824"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "University of Melbourne"
Affiliation Country: "Australia"
Cited by count: 27
---

## Abstract
"Ground source heat pump (GSHP) systems can provide cost effective and sustainable heating and cooling for buildings while using considerably less fossil fuel than conventional heating and cooling systems. This benefit can be further enhanced by adopting hybrid GSHP (HGSHP) systems wherein the GSHP component provides the baseload thermal energy with the balance provided by conventional systems. This study compares the costs of GSHP and HGSHP systems against conventional systems under a variety of climatic conditions, exemplified by those encountered across Australia, but including conditions encountered elsewhere. The results indicate that the comparative performance of GSHP and HGSHP systems depend on many parameters including climatic conditions, ground conditions, drilling prices and prices of electricity and gas in the regions where the systems are installed. Here we show that in general, adopting GSHP or HGSHP systems over conventional systems allow property owners to pay lower lifetime costs under most climatic conditions and gas to electricity energy price ratios. The results also indicate that conventional systems may be preferred in highly heating or cooling dominant climates and at locations with high drilling costs or low energy prices. In contrast, GSHP and HGSHP systems are preferred in locations with a more balanced climate, lower drilling costs and/or higher energy prices. There is no “one size fits all” rule given the many factors that can influence the lifetime costs. The paper shows that climatic conditions, ground conditions, drilling and energy costs must all be carefully considered when assessing the most cost effective sustainable energy technologies for space heating and cooling."
