---
SCOPUS_ID: 85097181498
Title: "Adaptation of hvac systems to reduce the spread of covid-19 in buildings"
Author: "Vranay F."
Journal: "Sustainability (Switzerland)"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2020-12-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2020
DOI: "10.3390/su12239992"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Technická Univerzita v Košiciach"
Affiliation Country: "Slovakia"
Cited by count: 16
---

## Abstract
"In 2020, all the world has been confronted with COVID-19. Bringing people together in buildings is proving to be a risk factor that we have to deal with. Although the greatest attention is paid to the SARS-CoV-2 virus, there are a number of other pathogens (viruses, bacteria, fungi, etc.) that can be transmitted through the air. These pathogens are sensitive to UV-C radiation. UV-C fluorescent lamps have been developed with technical parameters that are adapted to HVAC operating conditions. By using germicidal sources to disinfect the transported air, more than 90% of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, more than 97% of Influenza A virus, and 100% of Legionella pneumophila can be inactivated. The use of UV-C emitters for air disinfection allows the use of circulation and recuperation. Total balance of energy and CO2 emissions by variants and energies used, including humidification were performed for Slovak conditions. The operation of germicidal sources during the heating period in selected cities in our example would represent only 0.45% of the difference in heat demand and 0.42% of the difference in energy demand between operation according to recommendations and operation with germicidal sources. It is therefore an effective means of ensuring health safety and energy efficiency for the future."
