---
SCOPUS_ID: 85099729322
Title: "Distributed Control of Multizone HVAC Systems Considering Indoor Air Quality"
Author: "Yang Y."
Journal: "IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-11-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.1109/TCST.2020.3047407"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Berkeley Education Alliance for Research in Singapore"
Affiliation Country: "Singapore"
Cited by count: 27
---

## Abstract
"This article studies a scalable control method for multizone heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems to optimize the energy cost for maintaining thermal comfort (TC) and indoor air quality (IAQ) (represented by CO2) simultaneously. This problem is computationally challenging due to the complex system dynamics, various spatial and temporal couplings, as well as multiple control variables to be coordinated. To address the challenges, we propose a two-level distributed method (TLDM) with an upper level and lower level control integrated. The upper level computes zone mass flow rates for maintaining zone TC with minimal energy cost, and then, the lower level strategically regulates zone mass flow rates and the ventilation rate to achieve IAQ while preserving the near energy-saving performance of upper level. As both the upper and the lower level computation are deployed in a distributed manner, the proposed method is scalable and computationally efficient. The near-optimal performance of the method in energy cost saving is demonstrated through comparison with the centralized method. In addition, the comparisons with the existing distributed method show that our method can provide IAQ with only little increase of energy cost, while the latter fails. Moreover, we demonstrate that our method outperforms the demand-controlled ventilation (DCVs) strategies for IAQ management with about 8%-10% energy cost reduction. Note to Practitioners: The high portion of building energy consumption has motivated the energy saving for heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems. Concurrently, the living standards for indoor environment are rising among the occupants. Nevertheless, the status quo on improving building energy efficiency has mostly focused on maintaining thermal comfort (such as temperature), and the indoor air quality (IAQ) (usually represented by CO2 level) has been seldom incorporated. In our previous work with the similar setting, we observed that the CO2 levels will surge beyond tolerance during the high occupancy periods if only thermal comfort (TC) is considered for HVAC control. This deduces the IAQ and TC should be jointly considered while pursuing the energy cost saving target and thus studied in this article. This task is computationally cumbersome due to the complex system dynamics (thermal and CO2) and tight correlations among the different control components (variable air volume and fresh air damper). To cope with these challenges, this work develops a two-level distributed computation paradigm for HVAC systems based on problem structures. Specifically, the upper level control (ULC) first calculates zone mass flow rates for maintaining comfortable zone temperature with minimal energy cost, and then, the lower level strategically regulates the computed zone mass flow rates as well as ventilation rate to satisfy IAQ while preserving the near energy-saving performance of the ULC. As both the upper and lower level calculations can be implemented in a distributed manner, the proposed method is scalable to large multizone deployment. The method's performance both in maintaining comfort (i.e., TC and IAQ) and energy cost saving is demonstrated via simulations in comparisons with the centralized method, the distributed token-based scheduling strategy, and the demand-controlled ventilation strategies."
