---
SCOPUS_ID: 85105965088
Title: "A hybrid data-driven simultaneous fault diagnosis model for air handling units"
Author: "Wu B."
Journal: "Energy and Buildings"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-08-15T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.1016/j.enbuild.2021.111069"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Nanyang Technological University"
Affiliation Country: "Singapore"
Cited by count: 11
---

## Abstract
"Simultaneous faults are situations where two or more faults occur at the same time, which are difficult to be diagnosed by simple and stand-alone standard machine learning methods as a multi-label problem. Simultaneous faults for HVAC systems are not given enough attention under the challenges of insufficient sensors, coupled faults, and sophisticated mathematical models. A novel simultaneous fault diagnosis model based on a hybrid method of classifier chains integrated with random forest (CC-RF) is proposed in this study. On-site experiments involving six single fault cases and seven simultaneous fault cases for an air handling unit (AHU) system are conducted to verify this model. The results demonstrate a satisfactory performance with the test accuracy of 99.50% and F1 score of 99.66% for the fault diagnosis model. The model is proven to be neither underfitting nor overfitting and can be scalable with a reasonable training time. Through online analysis, the proposed method demonstrates a good competence of diagnosing not only single faults but also simultaneous fault. The CC-RF method has a better performance compared with classifier chains with logistic regression and support vector machine. Besides, the proposed method of classifier chains outperforms binary relevance due to the benefitting of label relevance."
