---
SCOPUS_ID: 85118847238
Title: "Construction method for air cooling/heating process in HVAC system based on grade match between energy and load"
Author: "Zheng G."
Journal: "International Journal of Refrigeration"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-11-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.1016/j.ijrefrig.2021.08.008"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Tsinghua University"
Affiliation Country: "China"
Cited by count: 8
---

## Abstract
"For traditional air cooling/heating process in HVAC system, only single temperature of water generated by mechanical equipment is used to handle air cooling/heating load. However, there is the potential to simultaneously use waters at different temperatures to finish air cooling/heating process, which has shown a significant energy-saving effect in previous studies. Currently, there is no theoretical method for efficiently guiding the simultaneous use of multiple energies, especially natural/waste energies, for handling air cooling/heating load. Thus, this paper proposes a construction method for air cooling/heating process based on grade match between energy and load (GMEL). Considering the air cooling/heating process of typical electronic factory in Beijing as example, new air cooling/heating systems are constructed according to load grade and local natural/waste energies. Furthermore, the energy use is compared with that of traditional air cooling/heating system. The results reveal the following: (1) The GMEL method can construct air cooling/heating process that fully uses natural/waste energies to directly handle air load as much as possible, applies water at different temperatures generated by mechanical equipment to handle the corresponding grade of load, and realizes mutual utilization of air cooling and heating loads. (2) The energy-savings rate of the constructed air cooling/heating system of typical electronic factory in summer/winter is 26.7%/52.4%. The static payback period is 0.83 year. (3) The specialized air cooling/heating processes are different for different local natural/waste energies and economic condition. The method will promote the full usage of renewable energy worldwide, and significantly improve the energy efficiency of mechanical cooling/heating source."
