---
SCOPUS_ID: 85111790108
Title: "A review of optimization approaches for controlling water-cooled central cooling systems"
Author: "Jia L."
Journal: "Building and Environment"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-10-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.1016/j.buildenv.2021.108100"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "re"
Document Type Description: "Review"
Affiliation: "The Bartlett Faculty of the Built Environment"
Affiliation Country: "United Kingdom"
Cited by count: 27
---

## Abstract
"Buildings consume a large amount of energy across all sectors of society, and a large proportion of building energy is used by HVAC systems to provide a comfortable and healthy indoor environment. In medium and large-size buildings, the central cooling system accounts for a major share of the energy consumption of the HVAC system. Improving the cooling system efficiency has gained much attention as the reduction of cooling system energy use can effectively contribute to environmental sustainability. The control and operation play an important role in central cooling system energy efficiency under dynamic working conditions. It has been proven that optimization of the control of the central cooling system can notably reduce the energy consumption of the system and mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. In recent years, numerous studies focus on this topic to improve the performance of optimal control in different aspects (e.g., energy efficiency, stability, robustness, and computation efficiency). This paper provides an up-to-date overview of the research and development of optimization approaches for controlling water-cooled central cooling systems, helping readers to understand the new significant trends and achievements in this area. The optimization approaches have been classified as system-model-based and data-based. In this paper, the optimization methodology is introduced first by summarizing the key decision variables, objective function, constraints, and optimization algorithms. The principle and performance of various optimization approaches are then summarized and compared according to their classification. Finally, the challenges and development trends for optimal control of water-cooled central cooling systems are discussed."
