---
SCOPUS_ID: 85128186757
Title: "Direct Thermal Load Control in Active Distribution Networks Based on Deep Reinforcement Learning"
Author: "Chen Z."
Journal: "5th IEEE Conference on Energy Internet and Energy System Integration: Energy Internet for Carbon Neutrality, EI2 2021"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.1109/EI252483.2021.9713068"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Tsinghua University"
Affiliation Country: "China"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"With the growth of electrical power consumption in the tertiary industry, the proportion of building thermal load is increasing significantly. On the demand side, load aggregators attempt to realize peak shifting by direct active power control of heating ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) devices. However, the difficulty in establishing accurate physical models of HVAC equipment has limited the performance of model-based optimization methods. Recently, deep reinforcement learning (DRL) has been widely studied and trusted to achieve optimal decisions without priori knowledge on the environment. In this paper, a DRL-based building thermal load control method is proposed to provide the auxiliary service of load shifting under the premise of thermal comfort. A resistor-capacitor model is introduced to describe the thermodynamics of exterior protection structure, and the regulation behavior is formulated into a Markov decision process. Then, an augmented algorithm called improved deep deterministic policy gradient (iDDPG) is proposed with high sample efficiency. Comprehensive numerical simulations are conducted to verify the feasibility and superiority of the proposed method. The results have supported the effectiveness of iDDPG in maximizing thermal comfort, optimizing peak shifting effect and reducing network loss."
