---
SCOPUS_ID: 85144596638
Title: "Reinforcement learning-based HVAC supervisory control of a multi-zone building- A real case study"
Author: "Naug A."
Journal: "2022 IEEE Conference on Control Technology and Applications, CCTA 2022"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2022-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2022
DOI: "10.1109/CCTA49430.2022.9966081"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Vanderbilt University"
Affiliation Country: "United States"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"Supervisory control of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems (HVACs) in large multi-zone buildings is fundamental for efficient energy management. Despite the significant advances in supervisory control of buildings, rule-based control remains being the most popular practice implemented by building managers. The main reason behind this is that building accurate physics-based models for control is challenging and time-consuming. Reinforcement learning (RL) methods present a good alternative considering that only data is needed to learn a control law. However, RL-based methods do not perform adequately when new operating conditions occur because the system dynamics become non-stationary. For buildings, this mainly happens because of changes in weather and occupancy. In this work, we present the results of applying a novel RL framework that addresses such issues to a large multizone building. From February, 2020 to February 2021, the supervisory controller was tested and achieved cooling and electrical energy savings by 13.1 % and 14.30 % under similar operating conditions compared to a previously deployed rule-based controller. In addition, the proposed controller achieved reduced zone temperature deviation by 21.31 % and VRF fan switching by over 10.79 %."
