---
SCOPUS_ID: 85160213775
Title: "Hierarchical Modelling for CO<inf>2</inf> Variation Prediction for HVAC System Operation"
Author: "Shaer I."
Journal: "Algorithms"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2023-05-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2023
DOI: "10.3390/a16050256"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Western University"
Affiliation Country: "Canada"
Cited by count: 3
---

## Abstract
"Residential and industrial buildings are significant consumers of energy, which can be reduced by controlling their respective Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) systems. Demand-based Ventilation (DCV) determines the operational times of ventilation systems that depend on indoor air quality (IAQ) conditions, including CO2 concentration changes, and the occupants’ comfort requirements. The prediction of CO2 concentration changes can act as a proxy estimator of occupancy changes and provide feedback about the utility of current ventilation controls. This paper proposes a Hierarchical Model for CO2 Variation Predictions (HMCOVP) to accurately predict these variations. The proposed framework addresses two concerns in state-of-the-art implementations. First, the hierarchical structure enables fine-tuning of the produced models, facilitating their transferability to different spatial settings. Second, the formulation incorporates time dependencies, defining the relationship between different IAQ factors. Toward that goal, the HMCOVP decouples the variation prediction into two complementary steps. The first step transforms lagged versions of environmental features into image representations to predict the variations’ direction. The second step combines the first step’s result with environment-specific historical data to predict CO2 variations. Through the HMCOVP, these predictions, which outperformed state-of-the-art approaches, help the ventilation systems in their decision-making processes, reducing energy consumption and carbon-based emissions."
