---
SCOPUS_ID: 85168118912
Title: "Efficient Facade Envelope Layout with Novel Waste-Based Thermal Insulations to Lower Air-Conditioning Costs and Carbon Emissions"
Author: "Shaik S."
Journal: "2023 8th International Conference on Smart and Sustainable Technologies, SpliTech 2023"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2023-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2023
DOI: "10.23919/SpliTech58164.2023.10193354"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Vellore Institute of Technology"
Affiliation Country: "India"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"Concerns about the consequences of climate change stimulate construction-related research. Throughout the last several decades, there has been a significant worldwide growth in building energy usage. HVAC systems in buildings mostly make use of this energy for thermal comfort. Integrating industrial waste into building insulation materials is essential for environmental preservation and energy efficiency improvements. The objective of this article is to evaluate the air-conditioning cost-saving potential of different patterns of fly ash brick stuffed with novel insulation materials. In this context, the novel insulation materials were packed into the various hollow sections of fly ash brick. Thirteen novel insulation materials are prepared by mixing various industrial wastes with polyurethane in different ratios. By means of an experimental investigation, the thermo-physical characteristics of the aforementioned insulating materials and fly ash brick were determined. To ascertain the yearly energy consumption of the building, a thermo-economic analysis was conducted based on the number of degree-hours of heating and cooling. The thermo-economic efficacy of fly ash bricks packed with insulation was assessed in two sites (Nagpur and Patna) in India The insulation material C:F(40/60) in SFAB-1 configuration demonstrated the greatest energy cost reduction of 0.897/m2 compared to studied insulations in various assemblies."
