---
SCOPUS_ID: 85183580976
Title: "A hybrid control strategy for frequency regulation with variable refrigerant flow air conditioning system"
Author: "Zhou F."
Journal: "Energy and Buildings"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2024-01-15T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2024
DOI: "10.1016/j.enbuild.2023.113783"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science"
Affiliation Country: "United States"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"Heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems of buildings are abundant sources for the Frequency Regulation (FR) ancillary service, whose actuating devices are controlled to follow the real-time power reference signals with the contractual capacity. For HVAC practice, model-based FR controls are hindered by expensive model acquisition. This paper presents a two-layer control strategy for HVAC systems to perform energy efficient FR service, with a rather low model requirement. At the lower level, the FR operation with a selected actuator is realized with a sliding mode control which is robust to power map variation. At the higher level, system efficiency is optimized in real time via a model-free constrained extremum seeking control (CESC). A conceptual variable refrigerant flow (VRF) system is used as the illustrative application, for which the outdoor unit fan offers the FR power reference tracking with SMC. At the outer loop, the compressor discharge pressure is adjusted by a CESC to minimize the total power consumption while the zonal temperature regulation is reinforced as equality constraint. The proposed strategy is evaluated with simulations on a Modelica simulation, and the results validate its effectiveness. The Net Energy Cost can reduce by 15% to 23% under different load levels."
