---
SCOPUS_ID: 85058174985
Title: "Integrated control for environment quality and energy efficiency - An implementation of library HVAC and lighting control"
Author: "Wu H.Y."
Journal: "ACRA 2018 - 9th Asian Conference on Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2018-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2018
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Industrial Technology Research Institute of Taiwan"
Affiliation Country: "Taiwan"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"An environment improvement renovation project was conducted for a library basement floor of a university in North Taiwan. The objectives are to maintain the indoor CO2 concentration below 1000 ppm, maintain PMV values within the range of ±1.1 (statistically 70% occupants satisfied), and achieve high building energy efficiency. A new AHU was installed to introduce outdoor air into the space. The indoor environment controls were integrated using one control system. The control algorithm integrates feedback control for maintaining CO2 concentrations, a free cooling scheme for AC energy saving, an optimal control of set-point temperatures for thermal comfort, and a zone open/close control based on the occupant number for energy saving. During a test period of the system, the measured indoor CO2 concentrations did not exceed 1000 ppm. And a simulation shows that even at the peak load condition, the CO2 concentration is maintained around 970 ppm. Another test showed that the indoor PMV values were maintained between -1.1 and 1.1 during the test period. Finally, a building energy simulation shows that the Energy Use Intensity (EUI) of the space is 110.7 kWh/m2.year, significantly lower than the average EUI of university libraries in Taiwan (176.9 kWh/m2.year). The results show that the control system is able to maintain satisfactory environment quality and achieve high energy efficiency."
