---
SCOPUS_ID: 85063722658
Title: "A software framework for heterogeneous wireless sensor network towards environmental monitoring"
Author: "Huang Q."
Journal: "Applied Sciences (Switzerland)"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2019-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2019
DOI: "10.3390/app9050867"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Southern Illinois University Carbondale"
Affiliation Country: "United States"
Cited by count: 5
---

## Abstract
"A wireless sensor network (WSN) is typically composed of spatially distributed miniature sensors that help collect large amounts of real-time environmental data from buildings. These environmental data (e.g., temperature, humidity, CO 2 concentration) can assist a series of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment to increase the building energy efficiency. From a system design perspective, heterogeneous wireless sensor networks need to address two challenges. First, sensor data acquisition, conversion, fusion, and packaging involve a series of software processing. Since each type of environmental sensor typically has unique processing requirements, it is difficult to develop an efficient software framework to combine the processing of multiple heterogeneous sensors. Second, during normal operation of a heterogeneous wireless sensor network, if users insert or remove some environmental sensors, the entire WSN system should operate normally. In this work, in order to solve the above two system design challenges, we have developed a low-power, low-cost, small form-factor WSN development platform, and its software framework can perform efficient data acquisition, conversion, fusion, and packaging for multiple heterogeneous sensors. Our proposed software framework enables easy and rapid WSN system deployment without affecting the overall functionality of each node. The proposed design differs from existing WSN platforms in that it emphasizes advanced high-level usability and reduces time to market without sacrificing low-level features. The proposed WSN system has been implemented and tested in an office building for indoor fire hazard detection. The experimental results show that our software framework can successfully complete data acquisition, conversion, fusion, and packaging tasks for three heterogeneous environmental sensors. In addition, we have verified that our software framework supports robust system operation when inserting or removing sensors from an existing heterogeneous WSN system."
