---
SCOPUS_ID: 85062661043
Title: "Investigating HVAC thermal comfort and energy efficiency in commercial buildings"
Author: "Kotisuryam M."
Journal: "International Journal of Mechanical and Production Engineering Research and Development"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2019-01-09T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2019
DOI: "10.24247/ijmperdfeb201931"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "REVA University"
Affiliation Country: "India"
Cited by count: 1
---

## Abstract
"HVAC is one of the largest consumers of electrical energy in residential and commercial buildings. Reducing of consumption of energy without compromising thermal comfort may have environmental and financial benefits. Thermal comfort expresses satisfaction with the thermal environment is one of the parameters necessary in building style that in depth modeling and standardization exist. in commercial buildings if thermal comfort is not satisfactory that may effect on human life, which may cause problematic behavior that forms a heavy burden for skilled and informal careers day and night. The main energy consumption contribution within the operation section of contemporary buildings is from their HVAC systems. Tactically HVAC systems could offer healthy and comfortable indoor surroundings, whereas poor design could result in wastage of energy. Historically the look of the systems relies on a continuing range of occupants whereas the situational awareness of the system has been unnoticed. This paper focuses on the investigating of the HVAC system in terms of its information of the occupants of the power in real time. Thermal comfort analysis is applied to check the indoor climate of buildings for economical use of such HVAC systems. Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) is used to model and simulate the indoor conditions. Pro-E software used for Building information Modeling (BIM) to be a platform to integrate all the information of commercial building standards, and using of CFD software check the inside thermal comfort levels and energy distribution at inside the room."
