---
SCOPUS_ID: 85062656641
Title: "Energy conservation for an office building in a hot climate"
Author: "Dalal H.S."
Journal: "International Conference on Efficient Building Design: Material and HVAC Equipment Technologies"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2018-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2018
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Associated Engineering Partnership"
Affiliation Country: "Kuwait"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"Kuwait is located in Middle east region. The weather is very hot.During summer the Ambient temp becomes 52 C db, and relative humidity varies between 40 % to 60%. Kuwait area is also very dusty due to sand dust . HVAC design is a very challenging today. ASHRAE 90.1 – is a standard guidelines related to energy saving. Year after year the power requirement becoming less to save energy as well carbon di oxide generation to control the environment. Ministry of electricity and water (MEW) have formulated some guidelines in this aspect. Façade glazing, Thermal Energy storage (TES), Energy Recovery Unit (ERU) etc will play related to Energy savings. Manufacturer also trying to improve Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER) of products like chillers, fans etc and they are concentrating on development of product by research and development. Noise reductions also Energy Conservation for an Office Building in A Hot Climate, Kuwait In this paper, An office building have been considered. Office area is air conditioned by Underfloor system. To reduce HVAC plant capacity, Thermal storage – Chilled water by Indirect interface system have been considered. The influence of following parameters like UFAD (Underfloor air distribution system}, Facade glazing factor like “U” (Overall Heat Transfer co efficient}, SHGF (solar Heat gain factor}, Thermal Energy Storage (TES) for Partial loading, ERU (Energy Recovery Unit) etc. will be discussed and the contribution as percentage of energy saving will be presented. An approx 10-15 % energy have been saved ."
