---
SCOPUS_ID: 85064321104
Title: "Components and design guidelines for solar cooling systems: The experience of ZEOSOL"
Author: "Palomba V."
Journal: "Renewable Energy"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2019-10-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2019
DOI: "10.1016/j.renene.2019.04.018"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Istituto Di Tecnologie Avanzate Per L'energia, Messina"
Affiliation Country: "Italy"
Cited by count: 27
---

## Abstract
"In this paper, the activity carried out within the H2020 project ZEOSOL is introduced. Making use of the lessons learned from previous solar cooling projects, an advanced hybrid solar cooling system was developed. It consists of a thermal and an electric unit in parallel integrated in a single unit with the dry-cooler. ZEOSOL is based on commercial components but was optimised in order to guarantee optimal seasonal performance, high reliability (and therefore reduced maintenance) and easy installation. The components of the system were experimentally tested in the laboratories of AkoTec, CNR ITAE and Fahrenheit, with a specific attention to the definition of performance maps as a function of operating and design parameters. During the tests of each component, possible control strategies and rules were identified. Subsequently, a simplified sizing tool was developed, which can be adapted to different configurations and climates and takes into account user-experience for different stakeholders, such as engineers and installers. The methodology implemented is described, in order to be used as a guideline for the definition of standard sizing procedures for solar cooling systems. As exemplary cases, the results for three different climates (Athens, Berlin and Ryiad) are also presented."
