---
SCOPUS_ID: 85078043100
Title: "Embodied Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) comparison of residential building retrofit measures in Atlanta"
Author: "Shirazi A."
Journal: "Building and Environment"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2020-03-15T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2020
DOI: "10.1016/j.buildenv.2020.106644"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "University of Technology Sydney"
Affiliation Country: "Australia"
Cited by count: 46
---

## Abstract
"Studies showed that up to 30% of a building's life cycle energy and emissions are associated with the embodied phase and this number could increase to 50% for energy efficient passive houses. The residential housing market alone has a significant impact on US emissions. This research targeted Atlanta as one of the growing metropolitan areas in the US and conducted an embodied Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) comparison of single-family residential retrofit measures considering the original construction year of the buildings. At first, the paper investigated the potential retrofit measurements to improve the operational energy consumption of the different building categories. The paper then calculated the embodied impacts associated with the retrofit measures and compared them against each other to find the most energy and environmentally efficient options in terms of the embodied impacts. The paper finally conducted a trade-off analysis to investigate the payback period of the retrofit options regarding their impact on the operational energy savings throughout the second phase of the building's life span. The main findings of this research showed that the highest environmental impacts are associated with the attic/knee insulation and heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) unit's replacement through retrofitting residential buildings. The findings also demonstrated the significant environmental impacts for foundation wall insulation and window upgrading through retrofitting dwellings built before the 1970s. The trade-off results revealed that the embodied energy payback period is generally around 3–5 years for before 1970s and 1.6–3.2 years for after 1970s buildings."
