---
SCOPUS_ID: 85089296327
Title: "Operating characteristics analysis of composite old and heat sources with combination of ground heat exchanger and heat-exchange tank based on trnsys"
Author: "Yang J."
Journal: "Taiyangneng Xuebao/Acta Energiae Solaris Sinica"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2020-07-28T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2020
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Southwest Jiaotong University"
Affiliation Country: "China"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"In view of the water loop heat pump air conditioning system in underground engineering, it is proposed that the ground heat exchanger and heat-exchange tanks should be connected in parallel as its composite cold and heat sources, which can realize infrared camouflage and energy-saving at the same time. In order to study the operating characteristics of the composite cold and heat sources system, the mathematical model of buried pipe and heat-exchange tank is set up based on TRNSYS software. First, the influence factors such as flow velocity and inlet temperature and so on are simulated and analyzed. It concludes that increasing flow velocity can obviously improve the heat transfer effect both of heat-exchange tank and buried pipe under the condition of small flow velocity. And the greater heat transfer temperature difference is, the better the heat transfer effect of the heat exchanger is. At the same flow rate, the heat transfer coefficient of the spiral coil is DN15 > DN20 > DN25 > DN32. Afterwards, the flow ratio of the composite cold and heat sources is optimized and analyzed for three different load ratios of wartime to peacetime. Results show that the composite cold and heat sources can meet the demand for cooling in war time as long as the flow ratio is properly controlled. The flow ratio between the composite cold and heat sources has the optimal value. And it is not affected by the flow of the loop and inlet temperature. The bigger the β is, the smaller the optimal flow ratio is. When the β is 1.0, 1.5 and 2.0, the optimal flow rates are 4/6, 3/7 and 2/8, respectively."
