---
SCOPUS_ID: 85091938151
Title: "Experimental investigations of a two-stage indirect/direct evaporative cooling system in different climatic conditions."
Author: "Shaban A.M."
Journal: "AIAA Scitech 2020 Forum"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2020-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2020
DOI: "10.2514/6.2020-1225"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Cairo University"
Affiliation Country: "Egypt"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"Currently, there are many types of research about cooling technologies which lead to a significant decrease in energy consumption in the HVAC domain. For this reason, an investigation of one of these promising technologies called Indirect evaporative cooling was conducted. To do this a two-stage Indirect/Direct evaporative cooling system was constructed to test its cooling performance under different climatic conditions. The two-stage Indirect/Direct evaporative experimental test rig consists of an indirect evaporative cooling stage (IEC) followed by a direct evaporative cooling stage (DEC). Two air simulators were provided to simulate the outdoor design condition of various Egyptian cities in the primary and secondary air streams. Results show that the effectiveness of IEC/DEC unit varies over a range of 95–120%. While the effectiveness of IEC stage varies over a range of 50–80%. Aspects of achieving power saving and comfort conditions have been investigated. With respect to the evaporative comfort zone, this system can provide comfort condition in a vast region in Egypt where direct evaporative alone is not able to provide summer comfort condition. More than 50% of energy saving could be obtained by this system in comparison with Traditional cooling technologies like mechanical vapor compression systems. While water consumption in this system is bigger than the direct one only but the total power saving covers this demerit. As an environmentally clean and energy efficient system, this system is capable of filling the gap between mechanical vapor compression systems and the direct evaporative cooling."
