---
SCOPUS_ID: 85114281622
Title: "Potential Analysis of the Attention-Based LSTM Model in Ultra-Short-Term Forecasting of Building HVAC Energy Consumption"
Author: "Xu Y."
Journal: "Frontiers in Energy Research"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2021-08-23T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2021
DOI: "10.3389/fenrg.2021.730640"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Qingdao University of Technology"
Affiliation Country: "China"
Cited by count: 19
---

## Abstract
"Predicting system energy consumption accurately and adjusting dynamic operating parameters of the HVAC system in advance is the basis of realizing the model predictive control (MPC). In recent years, the LSTM network had made remarkable achievements in the field of load forecasting. This paper aimed to evaluate the potential of using an attentional-based LSTM network (A-LSTM) to predict HVAC energy consumption in practical applications. To evaluate the application potential of the A-LSTM model in real cases, the training set and test set used in experiments are the real energy consumption data collected by Kitakyushu Science Research Park in Japan. Pearce analysis was first carried out on the source data set and built the target database. Then five baseline models (A-LSTM, LSTM, RNN, DNN, and SVR) were built. Besides, to optimize the super parameters of the model, the Tree-structured of Parzen Estimators (TPE) algorithm was introduced. Finally, the applications are performed on the target database, and the results are analyzed from multiple perspectives, including model comparisons on different sizes of the training set, model comparisons on different system operation modes, graphical examination, etc. The results showed that the performance of the A-LSTM model was better than other baseline models, it could provide accurate and reliable hourly forecasting for HVAC energy consumption."
