---
SCOPUS_ID: 85111613309
Title: "Improving energy efficiency of HVAC systems in buildings: a review of best practices"
Author: "Simpeh E.K."
Journal: "International Journal of Building Pathology and Adaptation"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2022-03-08T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2022
DOI: "10.1108/IJBPA-02-2021-0019"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "re"
Document Type Description: "Review"
Affiliation: "Kwame Nkrumah University of Science &amp; Technology"
Affiliation Country: "Ghana"
Cited by count: 8
---

## Abstract
"Purpose: Heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems account for approximately half of all energy usage in the operational phase of a building's lifecycle. The disproportionate amount of energy usage in HVAC systems against other utilities within buildings has proved a huge cause for alarm, as this practice contributes significantly to global warming and climate change. This paper reviews the status and current trends of energy consumption associated with HVAC systems with the aim of interrogating energy efficiency practices for improving HVAC systems' consumption in buildings in the context of developing countries. Design/methodology/approach: The study relied predominantly on secondary data by analysing the relevant body of literature and proposing conceptual insights regarding best practices for improving the energy efficiency of HVAC systems in buildings. The systematic review of the literature (SLR) was aided by the PRISMA guiding principle. Content analysis technique was adopted to examine germane scholarly articles and finally grouped them into themes. Findings: Based on the SLR, measures for enhancing the energy efficiency of HVAC systems in buildings were classified based on economic considerations ranging from low-cost measures such as the cost of tuning the system, installing zonal control systems, adopting building integrated greenery systems and passive solar designs to major approaches such as HVAC smart technologies for energy management which have multi-year pay-back periods. Further, it was established that practices to improve energy efficiency in buildings range from integrated greening system into buildings to HVAC system which are human-centred and controlled to meet human modalities. Practical implications: There is a need to incorporate these energy efficiency practices into building regulations or codes so that built environment professionals would have a framework within which to design their buildings to be energy efficient. This energy efficient solution may serve as a prerequisite for newly constructed buildings. Originality/value: To this end, the authors develop an integrated optimization conceptual framework mimicking energy efficiency options that may complement HVAC systems operations in buildings."
