---
SCOPUS_ID: 85129981581
Title: "Hygrothermal Performance of Salt (NaCl) for Internal Surface Applications in the Building Envelope"
Author: "Pungercar V."
Journal: "Materials"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2022-05-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2022
DOI: "10.3390/ma15093266"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Technische Universität München"
Affiliation Country: "Germany"
Cited by count: 1
---

## Abstract
"Salt (NaCl), as a by-product from the potash and desalination industry, can be the solution to the scarcity of building materials and might replace more energy-consuming materials. However, salt carries the risk of deliquescence in humid environments. This study conducted fundamental research on the hygrothermal performance of salt for internal surface applications in the building envelope in six different climate conditions. In addition, salt’s performance was also compared with that of gypsum in similar applications. The simulation models (using WUFI®Pro, WUFI®Plus) and in situ measurements were applied to investigate the hygrothermal consequences of the incorporation of salt on the thermal envelope, indoor environment, and energy consumption. Our studies revealed that salt provided the best hygrothermal responses without Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) in very hot-dry and the worst in very hot-humid climates. With an energy-efficient thermal envelope and HVAC, salt can also find an indoor application in temperate, continental, and subpolar climates. In comparison to gypsum, salt has a slightly higher energy demand (heating, cooling, and dehumidification) due to its higher thermal conductivity and moisture resistance. This study fills the knowledge gap on salt’s hygrothermal performance and shows the potential in its utilization."
