---
SCOPUS_ID: 85120950468
Title: "Experimental investigation of an integrated absorption- solid desiccant air conditioning system"
Author: "Ali M."
Journal: "Applied Thermal Engineering"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2022-02-25T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2022
DOI: "10.1016/j.applthermaleng.2021.117912"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "University of Engineering and Technology Taxila"
Affiliation Country: "Pakistan"
Cited by count: 12
---

## Abstract
"Separate handling of sensible and latent components of building loads can be an energy efficient approach compared to simultaneous management of both. This paper presents a detailed experimental analysis of an energy efficient air conditioning system using solid desiccant integrated with absorption system for separate building thermal load handling. The experimental system consists of silica-gel based solid desiccant for latent load handling, whereas the gas fired air-cooled NH3-H2O absorption chiller is used to handle sensible load of the space. A chilled water-cooling coil heat exchanger is installed on the process side of desiccant cooling system to integrate it with the absorption chiller. The performance of integrated absorption- solid desiccant system is compared with a standalone conventional desiccant air conditioning system with a direct evaporative cooler considering it as baseline system under wide range of operating conditions including air temperature, air humidity, and regeneration temperature. The comparative analysis is performed in terms of supply air temperature, cooling capacity, and coefficient of performance. The experimental results exhibit that supply air temperature of the integrated system is 15.2 °C compared to 24.6 °C achieved by conventional desiccant system. Moreover, COPth of the integrated system is also 50–55% higher than its counterpart and it is almost comparable with double-effect absorption chiller. It is concluded that the integrated system using separate load management approach is more efficient for HVAC applications."
