---
SCOPUS_ID: 85122245438
Title: "HVAC Control System Using Predicted Mean Vote Index for Energy Savings in Buildings"
Author: "Espejel-Blanco D.F."
Journal: "Buildings"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2022-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2022
DOI: "10.3390/buildings12010038"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Tecnológico Nacional de México"
Affiliation Country: "Mexico"
Cited by count: 12
---

## Abstract
"Nowadays, reducing energy consumption is the fastest way to reduce the use of fossil fuels and, therefore, greenhouse gas emissions. Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) systems are used to maintain an indoor environment in comfortable conditions for its occupants. The combination of these two factors, energy efficiency and comfort, is a considerable challenge for building operations. This paper introduces a design approach to control an HVAC, focused on an energy consumption reduction in the operation of the HVAC system of a building. The architecture was developed using a Raspberry Pi as a coordinator node and wireless connection with sensor nodes for environmental variables and electrical measurement nodes. The data received by the coordinator node is sent to the cloud for storage and further processing. The control system manages the setpoint of the HVAC equipment, as well as the turning on and off the HVAC compressor using an XBee-based solid state relay. The HVAC temperature control system is based on the Predicted Mean Vote (PMV) index calculation, which is used by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) to find the appropriate setpoint to meet the thermal comfort of 80% of users. This method combines the values of humidity and temperature to define comfort zones. The coordinator node makes the compressor control decisions depending on the value obtained in the PMV index. The proposed PMV-based temperature control system for the HVAC equipment achieves energy savings ranging from 33% to 44% against the built-in control of the HVAC equipment, when operating with the same setpoint of 26.5 grades centigrade."
