---
SCOPUS_ID: 85138640718
Title: "Effect of solar shading device inside the cavity of double skin facade for increasing energy efficiency: An experimental study"
Author: "Krishnan H.H."
Journal: "AIP Conference Proceedings"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2022-08-30T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2022
DOI: "10.1063/5.0103819"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "National Institute of Technology Tiruchirappalli"
Affiliation Country: "India"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"Buildings are one of the largest energy consumers in the present environment. Many energy-consuming systems were utilised in the structures to achieve thermal comfort for people. There is currently no one ideal design or approach for attaining optimal building energy efficiency. Envelope systems, as well as their impact on HVAC and lighting systems, play a critical role in energy efficiency. According to recent studies, direct solar radiation from the sun increases the cooling burden within buildings. Significant energy savings are generated by improving thermal comfort, visual comfort, and building ventilation with high glazing surfaces. As a result, a novel energy-efficient system known as Double Skin Facades with their shading devices was presented in this study to solve this problem. A double skin façade has two apertures at the top and bottom of the façade, each fitted with internal shading mechanisms, separated by a vented air gap. The goal of this project is to conduct an experimental research of Double Skin Facades and the effects of shading devices within the cavity. The passage of air and heat via the Double Skin Facade were also investigated. A solar power metre is used to collect information about the sun. The flow inside the hollow is naturally ventilated with little turbulent flow. The investigation of double skin facades was conducted using varied slat angles of shading devices of 0 0, 300, 450, and 600 degrees. In order to save energy, the variation of heat transfer with varying emissivity and air flow rates is investigated. Temperature, velocity, slat angles, and other factors that impact flow inside the hollow are examined, and variations are documented."
