---
SCOPUS_ID: 85146653119
Title: "Assessment of the energy efficiency for a building energy model using different glazing windows in a semi-arid climate"
Author: "Es-Sakali N."
Journal: "2022 13th International Renewable Energy Congress, IREC 2022"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2022-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2022
DOI: "10.1109/IREC56325.2022.10001934"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Green Energy Park"
Affiliation Country: "Morocco"
Cited by count: 9
---

## Abstract
"To improve the building's energy efficiency many parameters should be assessed considering the building envelope, energy loads, occupation, and HVAC systems. Fenestration is among the most important variables impacting residential building indoor temperatures. So, it is crucial to use the most optimal energy-efficient window glazing in buildings to reduce energy consumption and at the same time provide visual daylight comfort and thermal comfort. Many studies have focused on the improvement of building energy efficiency focusing on the building envelope or the heating, ventilation, and cooling systems. But just a few studies have focused on studying the effect of glazing on building energy consumption. Thus, this paper aims to study the influence of different glazing types on the building's heating and cooling energy consumption. A real case study building located under a semi-arid climate was used. The building energy model has been conducted using the OpenStudio simulation engine. Building indoor temperature was calibrated using ASHRAE's statistical indices. Then a comparative analysis was conducted using seven different types of windows including single, double, and triple glazing filled with air and argon. Tripleglazed and double-glazed windows with argon space offer 37% and 32% of annual energy savings. It should be stressed that the methodology developed in this paper could be useful for further studies to improve building energy efficiency using optimal window glazing."
