---
SCOPUS_ID: 85146492424
Title: "Smart Agriculture Application for Monitoring Environment of Poultry Farm with Energy-Efficiency Measure"
Author: "Ahmed S.M.M."
Journal: "IEEE Global Energy Conference, GEC 2022"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2022-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2022
DOI: "10.1109/GEC55014.2022.9987058"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Heriot-Watt University"
Affiliation Country: "United Kingdom"
Cited by count: 2
---

## Abstract
"Agriculture plays one of the most essential roles in the development of the economic sector of a country. Poultry farming is one of the most demandable agricultural methods that can play a significant role to fulfill the major food demand of developing countries like Bangladesh. Moreover, energy-efficient smart Internet of Things (IoT) based applications could play a vital role to reduce the extra energy loss of poultry farms. Though, the fundamental aspiration of this work is to propose a smart mobile application for poultry farms that will keep an ideal environment inside the poultry farm. Also, through the app, it is possible to control energy meters and meet all kinds of electricity needs of the poultry farm after the integration with the solar PV power plant. For the monitoring purpose of the poultry farm, a smart app has been created which will be able to work automatically without any expertise. Besides, the name of the poultry app is given 'Smart Agriculture Application (SAA)'. In addition, more exciting features have been added to the application including a password or fingerprint verification system, a three-step verification system, and so on. On the other hand, the application is not limited to controlling the indoor environment for chickens, but also ducks, and incubation procedures through the application. Nevertheless, the android application had developed for easy access to control systems in a smart way. However, the 'SAA' mobile application will create a smart energy-efficient, and vibrant indoor environment for the poultry farm that can easily be operated by the farmers."
