---
SCOPUS_ID: 85149756186
Title: "Quantum computing for future real-time building HVAC controls"
Author: "Deng Z."
Journal: "Applied Energy"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2023-03-15T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2023
DOI: "10.1016/j.apenergy.2022.120621"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "College of Engineering and Computer Science"
Affiliation Country: "United States"
Cited by count: 7
---

## Abstract
"Buildings contribute to more than 70% of overall U.S. electricity usage and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. HVAC systems in buildings often consume more than 40% of the total building energy usage. To reduce such high energy use, numerous control strategies including optimal and predictive controls have been developed and demonstrated. To achieve a near real-time solution, most previous research has simplified the non-linearity of building thermodynamics and provided an approximate optimal solution. The future HVAC control optimizes more connected devices in buildings, which requires a rapid and accurate response, not only to the building itself but also to the grid signals. It also poses the challenge of solving non-linear problems with discrete variables. With the recent development of quantum computers, this has become feasible. In this paper, we developed a new optimization solution based on quantum annealing for model predictive control (MPC) of a rooftop unit (RTU). Compared to traditional optimization methods, we obtained similar solutions with less than 2% differences and improved computational speed from hours to seconds. We also demonstrated an 80% reduction in total electricity consumption and a 21% reduction in electricity bills by considering day-ahead price time-of-use demand response signals. Quantum computing has proven capable of solving large-scale non-linear discrete optimization problems for building energy systems."
