---
SCOPUS_ID: 85183453466
Title: "Economic and environmental impact of energy audit and efficiency: A report from a Nigeria household"
Author: "Lawal O.A."
Journal: "Energy for Sustainable Development"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2024-04-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2024
DOI: "10.1016/j.esd.2024.101387"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Universiti Sains Malaysia"
Affiliation Country: "Malaysia"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"Limited access to electricity poses a significant hurdle to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly SDG 7. In Nigeria, this affects approximately 90 million people, constituting around 12.5 % of the global population grappling with similar issues. One of the principal contributing factors is the inefficient utilisation of available capacity. This study advocates for a transformative approach through comprehensive energy audits and efficiency measures to tackle the energy crisis in Nigeria. These measures encompass enhanced operational practices, upgraded electrical systems, and integration of renewable energy into buildings. The selected building was deemed representative of residential buildings in Nigeria because it mirrors the diversity observed in the architectural styles, construction materials, and energy usage patterns commonly found across residential areas in the country. Optimising lighting in the building under examination will save 230kWh annually, offering a 9-month payback period and an ROI of 126 %. Retrofitting the pumping machine yields savings of 182kWh over two years, with an ROI of 50 %. Incorporating solar PV panels and batteries result in a yearly energy savings of 3000 kWh, with a ₦300,000 capital cost and an ROI of 26.20 %, resulting in a net present value exceeding ₦690,000. Replacing air conditioners with more efficient models reduces greenhouse gas emissions by 4.40 tons annually, contributing to a more environmentally sustainable approach. These proposed measures can collectively save the building up to 7587kWh from its current consumption of 15,715kWh, representing significant energy efficiency and conservation progress. Scaling this initiative to save about half of the energy used in residential, commercial, and industrial buildings holds the potential to significantly enhance electricity access in Nigeria and globally, aligning with the principles of SDGs."
