---
SCOPUS_ID: 84941996069
Title: "Feasibility study of renewable energy sources for energy efficiency"
Author: "Megri A."
Journal: "ASEE Annual Conference and Exposition, Conference Proceedings"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2015-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2015
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University"
Affiliation Country: "United States"
Cited by count: 1
---

## Abstract
"The purpose of this study is to assess the roof of an industrial building and its adjacent land for possible solar PV, thermal solar or geothermal installations and to estimate the cost, performance and site impacts of these three systems. The economics of the potential systems were analyzed using an electric rate suggested by the utility company, as well as incentives that are offered by the federal, State, and by the serving utility. The electrical rate increases over the next three years need to be anticipated. A rate increase of this magnitude would greatly improve the economics of a renewable system, such as solar PV generation plant. The system economics with the anticipated rate increase information and job creation estimates if the building roof and its adjacent land were used for one of the three systems. As well, the purpose of the work is to provide students with the opportunity to apply the design theories and techniques they have learned in earlier classes to the full design of a building including its structural, HVAC and electrical systems. Students also review and deepen their understanding of architecturally related topics including special layout and building codes requirements. Most importantly, project methodology will be discussed. We discuss the capstone design program from students' point of view, and the experience earned in design, integration, and also in written and oral communication skills. Methodology used to evaluate the effectiveness of the capstone design program in term of learning outcomes is also described."
