---
SCOPUS_ID: 84976351833
Title: "Development of typical year weather files for 59 indian locations"
Author: "Huang Y.J."
Journal: "14th International Conference of IBPSA - Building Simulation 2015, BS 2015, Conference Proceedings"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2015-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2015
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "White Bux Technologies"
Affiliation Country: "United States"
Cited by count: 1
---

## Abstract
"The Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers (ISHRAE) has worked in developing weather data lor use in HV'AC design and energy calculations since the 1990s. The increased use of building energy simulations in recent years has created a need lor detailed hourly weather files for Indian locations. In 2005, ISHRAE released an initial set (ISHRAli 1) of Typical Year weather files for 58 locations based on limited raw data. In 2009, ISHRAli started a 4-year effort to create a new set of Typical Year weather liles, using raw weather data from 1993 through 2007 provided by the Indian Bureau of Energy Efficiency. Much of the software techniques to fill data gaps, calculate the solar radiation, and select the typical months making up the typical year were based on prior work done to create the IWEC2 weather files for ASHRAE. The main technical challenge is the calculation of global horizontal and direct normal solar radiation, which utilized the newly- Available ASHRAE Clear Sky Model, and were in addition calibrated against satellite-derived solar radiation produced by the US National Renewable Energy Laboratory. Due to the limitations in the raw data, this second effort was able to produce new ISHRAE2 weather files for only 38 locations. Therefore, the decision was made to retain 21 of the ISHRAE1 weather files, but upgrade their solar radiation values using the same calculation method, ultimately resulting in 59 weather files in all. The paper will also briefly desenbe other sources of hourly weather files for Indian locations."
