---
SCOPUS_ID: 84988969490
Title: "Simulating the power consumption components of data center and benefits of replacing HVAC equipment"
Author: "Hsieh M."
Journal: "ACRA 2016 - 8th Asian Conference on Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2016-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2016
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "National Taipei University of Technology"
Affiliation Country: "Taiwan"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"A data center in Taipei was investigated for the potential of energy saving by replacing with more energy efficient HVAC components. Hourly operation of a data center is simulated using a dynamic building energy program. It has been found that average monthly power load variation is not significant without energy saving measures. The major power items are the IT equipment, HVAC, server fans and UPS loss. HVAC constitute 35% of power use, for which chillers make up 56% of power use, 30% for fans and 16% for pumps. The PUE of the data studied is between 1.65 and 1.66 at different times of a year. Screw compressor and centrifugal compressor chillers are compared in terms of COP and IPLV. It has been found when evaluated in terms of IPLV centrifugal chiller is superior to that of screw chiller. Variable fan volume is viable for the demand control of server load. The replacement of centrifugal chiller would be 12.3% more efficient. High efficient fans would be 8.3% more energy efficient. As a result PUE could be reduced to about 1.5. Data center when replaced with high efficiency chiller and fans would combine to an energy saving of more than 20%. A regression model of temperature control is attempted and found to have not significant energy saving potential as variable air volume has been applied."
