---
SCOPUS_ID: 85006721682
Title: "The SPOT<sup>∗</sup> personal thermal comfort system"
Author: "Rabbani A."
Journal: "Proceedings of the 3rd ACM Conference on Systems for Energy-Efficient Built Environments, BuildSys 2016"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2016-11-16T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2016
DOI: "10.1145/2993422.2993578"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "University of Waterloo"
Affiliation Country: "Canada"
Cited by count: 31
---

## Abstract
"Conventional centralized HVAC systems cannot provide office workers with personalized thermal comfort because workers in a single zone share a common air handling unit and thus a single air temperature. Moreover, they heat or cool an entire zone even if a single worker is present, which can waste energy. Both drawbacks are addressed by Personal Environmental Control (PEC) systems that modify the thermal envelope around a worker's body to provide personalized comfort. However, most PEC systems are both expensive and difficult to deploy, making them unsuitable for large-scale deployment. In contrast, we present the design and implementation of the SPOT∗ PEC system that is carefully designed for rapid and scalable deployment. Intuitive web-based interfaces for user controls allow SPOT∗ to be installed in only about 15 minutes, including user training. It is also low-cost because it uses the fewest possible sensors and a lightweight compute engine that can optionally be located in the cloud. We present the detailed design of the SPOT∗ system and results from a cumulative 58,000 hours of operation in 15 offices. We find that in our deployment SPOT∗ reduced the average absolute discomfort experienced by a typical user by 67% compared to the same HVAC systesm isn the absence of SPOT."
