---
SCOPUS_ID: 85017498117
Title: "Numerical analysis and model-based control of energy recovery ventilator in HVAC system"
Author: "Huynh N.K."
Journal: "2016 World Congress on Sustainable Technologies, WCST 2016"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2017-03-24T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2017
DOI: "10.1109/WCST.2016.7886595"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Graduate College"
Affiliation Country: "Singapore"
Cited by count: 1
---

## Abstract
"In recent years, the energy conservation demand attracted much attention due to the depletion of energy resource and environmental impact by increasing energy consumption. In particular, heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems in buildings is responsible for significant portion of global energy demand. Heat or energy recovery is one of the key energy-efficient technologies, which reveals to overcome the increase of energy consumption in building without reducing the indoor air quality. However, in the conventional heat recovery system, only the sensible heat was recovered, but the latent heat was ignored. In this work, a novel energy recovery ventilation (ERV) model is developed with semi-permeable membrane, and the performance of sensible and latent energy subject to tropical climate conditions is investigated by both numerical and experimental methods. The 3D ERV model is comprehensively studied first by CFD simulation for analysis of important parameters, such as velocity, temperature, humidity of supply and exhaust airflow. The CFD simulation results show that the sensible and latent effectiveness could be gained at 75% and 65% respectively. Moreover, preliminary experiment is also conducted to validate the simulation results for the impacts of ERV on energy consumption. The dynamic model of HVAC is then constructed and developed in Simulink. The model predictive control strategy for the control of temperature, humidity and CO2 level will be implemented in this model for optimization of ERV control integrated into the whole HVAC system to achieve much more energy saving."
