---
SCOPUS_ID: 85021897260
Title: "Solar-assisted heat pump systems"
Author: "Sarbu I."
Journal: "Renewable Energy: Sources, Applications and Emerging Technologies"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2016-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2016
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Book"
Document Type: "ch"
Document Type Description: "Book Chapter"
Affiliation: "Universitatea Politehnica Timisoara"
Affiliation Country: "Romania"
Cited by count: 3
---

## Abstract
"Energy, similar to water, food and shelter, is an essential need of all human beings in the world. Fossil fuels are the prominent source for generating utilisable forms of energy. Therefore, fossil fuels are the major contributor to global warming and the greenhouse effect on the ozone. European Union (EU) energy consumption patterns reveal that buildings are the greatest energy consumer using approximately 40% of the total energy demand followed by industry and transportation, which consume approximately 30% each. Currently, heating is responsible for almost 80% of the energy demand in houses and utility buildings, used for space heating and hot water generation, whereas the energy demand for cooling is growing yearly. The awareness of global warming has intensified in recent times and has reinvigorated search for energy sources that are independent of fossil fuels and contribute less to global warming. The European strategy to decrease the energy dependence rests on two objectives: the diversification of the various sources of supply and policies to control consumption. The key to diversification is ecological and renewable energy sources (RES) because they have significant potential to contribute to sustainable development. Among the energy alternatives to fossil fuels, RES such as solar, geothermal and hidropower are more available. Key applications for solar technologies are those that require low temperature heat such as domestic water heating, space heating, pool heating, drying process and certain industrial processes. Concerning the use of high efficiency heating/cooling systems and the integration of RES, the heat pump (HP) is one of the most advantageous systems to be considered in a heating, ventilating and air conditioning plant (HVAC). During the last decades there is an increasing interest in dual source systems. The main idea in dual source systems is that the HP absorbs heat by two heat sources. Twoarrangements widely studied in literature are air-source HP/solar collectors and groundsource HP/solar collectors. Solar energy has the characteristics of intermittence and low density, which largely restrict the application of solar heating. The solar-assisted heat pump (SAHP) heating system, which combines HP technology with solar heating technology, can solve the intermittent problem of solar energy. HP systems can extract low-grade thermal energy from the environment and waste heat for use in water/space heating applications. This chapter offers a comprehensive and consistent overview of SAHP systems. Initially, it presents the operation principle of an HP, discusses the vapour compressionbased HP systems, and describes the thermodynamic cycle and they calculation, as well as operation regimes of a vapour compression HP with electro-compressor. The calculation of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of HPs and energy performance criteria that allow for implementing an HP in a heating/cooling system is considered. A detailed description of the HP types and ground-source HP (GSHP) development is presented and important information on the selection of the heat source and HP systems are discussed. Additionally, other approach is to integrate the solar thermal system on the source side of the HP so that the solar thermal energy is either the sole heat source for the HP or provides suplementary heat. The operation principle and calculation of the thermodynamic cycle for a solar-assisted absorption HP are also briefly analysed. Finally, a novel HVAC system consisting in a solar-assisted absorption ground-coupled HP is described and some of the influence parameters on its energy efficiency is analysed. A model of the experimental installation is developed using the Transient Systems Simulation (TRNSYS) software and validated with experimental results obtained in the installation for its cooling mode operation."
