---
SCOPUS_ID: 85020496857
Title: "Relationship between Sustainable Technology and Building Age: Evidence from Australia"
Author: "Dadzie J."
Journal: "Procedia Engineering"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2017-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2017
DOI: "10.1016/j.proeng.2017.04.273"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "University of Technology Sydney"
Affiliation Country: "Australia"
Cited by count: 8
---

## Abstract
"The overall energy performance of existing buildings is an important consideration in decisions to demolish or refurbish. To refurbish means to use sustainable technologies (STs) to improve energy efficiency, health of occupants, energy cost and environmental sustainability. This paper examines the use of STs to streamline energy efficiency in existing buildings. It analyses various buildings of different ages retrofitted over the last 5 years and the various STs used to enhance energy efficiency through an in-built case study in a survey. The results show that buildings less than 15 years old have been improved with fewer façade technologies compared to those between 16-30 years old. Overall, buildings aged between 16-30 years are the most improved with STs followed by buildings less than 15 years old and those between 31-45 years, in that order. Buildings over 45 years are the least improved with STs for energy efficiency. They had received less than 10% of ST technology injection. The lighting systems, sensors, energy efficient equipment and passive strategies have been applied improve energy efficiency across all ages. However, solar technologies, HVAC systems, façade technologies and building management systems are the least adopted across all ages."
