---
SCOPUS_ID: 85020972196
Title: "Deep energy retrofit of presidio army barracks"
Author: "Tulley J."
Journal: "ASHRAE Transactions"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2017-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2017
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Engineering"
Affiliation Country: "United States"
Cited by count: 1
---

## Abstract
"Presidio of Monterey, home to the Defense Language Institute, faces the same challenges as other Army bases in managing its aging building stock. More than 25% of the barracks, for example, were built in the 1960s and lack today's safety, comfort, and energy-efficiency standards. In preparing to address the shortfalls of one such Presidio barracks, Building 630, the Directorate of Public Works staffworked with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to chart a path forward. Rather than relying on conventional approaches to infrastructure modernization, stakeholders decided to craft the military's first documented deep energy retrofit (DER) solution. The Army defines a DER as \"a major building renovation project inwhich site energy use intensity (including plug loads) has been reduced by at least 50%from thepre-renovation baseline with a corresponding improvement in indoor environmental quality and comfort\"(Zhivov et al. 2016). For Presidio, preliminary energy modeling helped set an ambitious but achievable goal of 86% energy savings using a combination of high performance envelope requirements with super-efficient (but commercially available) HVAC and lighting systems including solar hot-water generation sized for 70% of the domestic load. Ultimately, Presidio will apply the successes and lessons learned ofitsfirst DER towards additional retrofit projects to better align with its mandated net zero energy trajectory. The true value, however, lies in leveraging energy savings as a part of renovation projects aimed at raising the quality of facility conditions to a level commensurate with the mission of its occupants. The goal of this paper is to demonstrate the acquisition strategies employed and field lessons learned in an attempt to better guide prospective DER project stakeholders. Being a federalfacility, this project employed a regimented process to its various contracting phases with some strategic augmentation to support the DER method that is transferable to similar retrofit efforts. As a pilot effort, there have also been many process-based and technical lessons learned that can be used to bolster future DER work at Presidio, in the Army, and throughout the sustainability industry."
