---
SCOPUS_ID: 85028514963
Title: "Recent advancements in earth air tunnel heat exchanger (EATHE) system for indoor thermal comfort application: A review"
Author: "Singh R."
Journal: "Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2018-02-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2018
DOI: "10.1016/j.rser.2017.08.058"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "re"
Document Type Description: "Review"
Affiliation: "Durban University of Technology"
Affiliation Country: "South Africa"
Cited by count: 74
---

## Abstract
"Buildings consume approximately 40% of the global energy use. A significant portion of the total consumed energy is used in heating and cooling the buildings. Passive concepts are appreciated for lowering energy consumption in heating/cooling the buildings and accomplishing indoor thermal comforts using natural energy resources. Earth air tunnel heat exchanger (EATHE) system is one of the passive technologies used for heating and cooling the buildings. The concept exploits the subsoil thermal energy and uses it for producing indoor thermal comforts in both summer and winter seasons. In this article, recent development in the design process of the technology and impacts of ground surface modifications and different design parameters were reviewed and discussed. The technology has received great attention in recent years and has been demonstrated successfully in few locations. The EATHE systems yielded substantial energy savings by using in stand alone as well as in hybrid mode with the conventional HVAC systems. Use of the system eventually led/may lead to lower GHGs emission and minimised impact of energy crises. This review article indicates that the EATHE technology can suitably be used in standalone as well as in integrated modes with other passive and conventional heating/cooling technologies. Despite many advantages, the technology may suffer from the economic constraint."
