---
SCOPUS_ID: 85034423922
Title: "Application of artificial intelligencein energy efficient H.V.A.C. system design: A case study"
Author: "Adhikary P."
Journal: "ARPN Journal of Engineering and Applied Sciences"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2017-11-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2017
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "Amity University Kolkata"
Affiliation Country: "India"
Cited by count: 9
---

## Abstract
"Artificial intelligence (Artificial Neural Network-ANN, Fuzzy Expert System - FES, Genetic Algorithm - GA etc.) are widely accepted as a technology offering an alternative way to tackle complex and ill-defined problems. They can learn from examples, are fault tolerant in the sense that they can handle noisy and incomplete data are able to deal with non-linear problems and, once trained, can perform prediction and generalisation at high speed. They have been used in diverse applications in control, robotics, pattern recognition, forecasting, medicine, power systems, manufacturing, optimisation, signal processing and social/psychological sciences. They are particularly useful in system modelling, such as in implementing complex mappings and system identification. This study presents application of ANN in HVAC system design problem. It can also be used for the estimation of cooling or heating loads of buildings. In all those models, multiple hidden layer architecture has-been used. Errors reported in these models are well within acceptable limits, which clearly suggest that artificial intelligence (ANN) can be used for modelling other fields of energy too. To the best of the author's knowledge these novel approaches for application of Artificial Intelligence or Artificial Neural Network (ANN) in energy efficient HVAC system design is absent in thermal engineering or fluid mechanics literature due to its assessment complexity."
