---
SCOPUS_ID: 85038119578
Title: "Using machine learning techniques for occupancy-prediction-based cooling control in office buildings"
Author: "Peng Y."
Journal: "Applied Energy"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2018-02-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2018
DOI: "10.1016/j.apenergy.2017.12.002"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "ar"
Document Type Description: "Article"
Affiliation: "ETH Zürich"
Affiliation Country: "Switzerland"
Cited by count: 225
---

## Abstract
"Heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) are among the major energy demand in the buildings sector globally. Improving the energy efficiency of such systems is a critical objective for mitigating greenhouse gas emissions and transitioning towards renewable sources of energy supply. The interest of this paper is to explore means to increase the efficiency of HVAC systems in accommodating occupants’ behavior in real time. For instance, rooms in office buildings are not always occupied by occupants during scheduled HVAC service periods. This offers an opportunity to reduce unnecessary energy demands of HVAC systems associated with occupants’ behavior. An in-depth analysis of occupants’ stochastic behavior within an office building is conducted in this paper. A demand-driven control strategy is proposed that automatically responds to occupants’ energy-related behavior for reducing energy consumption and maintains room temperature for occupants with similar performances as a static cooling. In this control strategy, two types of machine learning methods – unsupervised and supervised learning – are applied to learn occupants’ behavior in two learning processes. The occupancy-related information learned by the algorithms is used by a set of specified rules to infer real-time room setpoints for controlling the office's space cooling system. This learning-based approach intends to reduce the need for human intervention in the cooling system's control. The proposed strategy was applied to control the cooling system of the office building under real-world conditions. Eleven case study office spaces were selected, representing three typical office uses: single person offices, multi-person offices, and meeting rooms. The experimental results report between 7% and 52% energy savings as compared to the conventionally-scheduled cooling systems."
