---
SCOPUS_ID: 85037732136
Title: "Modeling techniques used in building HVAC control systems: A review"
Author: "Afroz Z."
Journal: "Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2018-03-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2018
DOI: "10.1016/j.rser.2017.10.044"
Source Type: "Journal"
Document Type: "re"
Document Type Description: "Review"
Affiliation: "Murdoch University"
Affiliation Country: "Australia"
Cited by count: 225
---

## Abstract
"The appropriate application of advanced control strategies in Heating, Ventilation, and Air-conditioning (HVAC) systems is key to improving the energy efficiency of buildings. Significant advances have been made in the past decades on model development to provide better control over the energy consumption of system components while simultaneously ensuring a satisfactory indoor environment in terms of thermal comfort and indoor air quality. Yet it is an ongoing challenge to select and implement the best-suited modeling technique for improving the control strategy of HVAC systems. For the development of modeling research it is important that the building research community is informed about the role, application, merits, shortcomings and outcomes of different modeling techniques used in HVAC systems. Even though several review articles have been published on modeling techniques, the weaknesses and strengths of these modeling techniques, along with performances of developed models associated with research studies, have rarely been identified. This study presents a critical review of current modeling techniques used in HVAC systems regarding their applicability and ease of acceptance in practice and summarizes the strengths, weaknesses, applications and performance of these modeling techniques. Additionally, the performance and outcome of some of the developed models used in real world HVAC systems have been discussed. From the extensive critical review it is evident that almost every model has a major/minor shortcoming generated from assumptions, unmeasured disturbances or uncertainties in some system properties. This review aims at highlighting the shortcomings of existing application-based research on HVAC systems, and accordingly, recommendations are presented to improve the performance of building HVAC systems."
