---
SCOPUS_ID: 85048657065
Title: "A case study of efficient HVAC systems with smart thermostats: What smart thermostats can do in residential buildings?"
Author: "Khazaeli M."
Journal: "Construction Research Congress 2018: Sustainable Design and Construction and Education - Selected Papers from the Construction Research Congress 2018"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2018-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2018
DOI: "10.1061/9780784481301.035"
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "University of the Pacific, California"
Affiliation Country: "United States"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"Currently the majority of residential heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems are being controlled by thermostats that either have a fixed schedule or temperature. This technology is not very energy efficient and can be improved by the use of smart sensors to reduce the operation times of the HVAC systems when they are not needed. The smart sensors discussed throughout this research study are based on mobile phones, select portable devices, and various smart wearable devices. These smart sensors allow for human motion detection and body/ambient temperature sensors. There are a variety of new products from various HVAC companies (e.g., Nest, Honeywell, etc.) that allow the connection of an application (app) to remotely control the smart thermostat device. These products are a step in the right direction, but smart sensors will lead to more efficient electricity use in HVAC systems. Sensors can allow for variable operation to a variety of settings, such as human comfort, climate control, performance, and cost. The sensors used for this research measured a variety of conditions, especially human temperature, and location of occupants. HVAC systems account for a large portion of the global annual total energy consumption. Future HVAC systems will use sensors to control indoor climate comfort conditions. These systems will allow a more efficient use of energy for a greater habitant comfort; further reducing the impact on climate change. Building information modeling (BIM) can be used to develop a comparative analysis for different HVAC loadings based on various smart sensors. The main objective of this research is to determine if the use of smart devices as sensors can simultaneously provide a comfortable environment and reduce the operation time of HVAC systems; which can reduce the overall cost and maintenance problems associated with fixed operation systems that currently dominate the residential market."
