---
SCOPUS_ID: 85048627426
Title: "Proposal of a solar-powered absorption refrigeration system integrated with liquid desiccant dehumidification for cooling and water"
Author: "Su B."
Journal: "30th International Conference on Efficiency, Cost, Optimization, Simulation and Environmental Impact of Energy Systems, ECOS 2017"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2017-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2017
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "University of Chinese Academy of Sciences"
Affiliation Country: "China"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"Absorption refrigeration systems (ABS) are widely employed in heating ventilation air conditioning (HVAC) and industrial applications due to its environmental friendliness and power-saving property. In the conventional absorption refrigerator, the LiBr-H2O solution from the absorber with high mass concentration and ambient temperature has the potential to absorb the moisture of air because of its low surface vapor partial pressure. This paper proposed a novel solar-powered absorption refrigeration system integrated with a liquid desiccant dehumidifier. The new system need not have a solution regeneration process, and could simultaneously realize temperature and humidity independence control (THIC) and fresh water production. Simulation study shows that the requiring solar energy reduces from 177 kW to 137.8 kW, and the solar collecting temperature reduces by 4.3 ºC. The overall COPsys reaches 0.39 which increases 56% comparing to the reference system. An exergy analysis was adopted to reveal the irreversible losses in the proposed system for the further improvement of the thermodynamic performance. The exergy efficiency (?ex) for proposed system reaches 6.49%, which is 1.78% higher than that in the reference system. This new may is especially applicable in some remote areas along coastal regions and islands where the air relative humidity is high and the situation of fresh water resource are grim, while the solar energy source is rich."
