---
SCOPUS_ID: 85052379689
Title: "Full-scale assessment of the performance of an aspiration efficiency based pollution control device for building HVAC systems."
Author: "McNabola A."
Journal: "Healthy Buildings Europe 2015, HB 2015 - Conference Proceedings"
Publication Date: {'$date': '2015-01-01T00:00:00Z'}
Publication Year: 2015
DOI: nan
Source Type: "Conference Proceeding"
Document Type: "cp"
Document Type Description: "Conference Paper"
Affiliation: "Trinity College Dublin"
Affiliation Country: "Ireland"
Cited by count: 0
---

## Abstract
"The control of particulate air pollution using the concept of aspiration efficiency has recently been predicted to have the potential to reduce energy consumption in building HVAC systems by 15-20%. Such a system could offer considerable savings providing healthier buildings for the environment. However, previous investigations which developed this aspiration efficiency reducer (AER) have done so using a scale model, while a number of assumptions in the estimation of energy performance were also made. This investigation outlines a programme of full-scale long-term performance assessment of the AER. Two identical air handling units were constructed and installed side-by-side on the roof of a commercial building in Ireland. One of the air handling units provided a control while the other was fitted with the AER and the energy performance and pollution control capabilities of both were monitored over a number of months. Pressure drop across the filters in both air handlers were compared. Outdoor and induct air pollution concentrations were also monitored. This work also included the design and development of the full scale model, as well as prediction of its performance using computational fluid dynamics (CFD) modelling. The results of this investigation confirmed that the addition of an AER on to the inlet of a HVAC system reduces energy consumption over the lifetime of a typical filter by 5.5-14.8%. The extent of the energy savings achievable are dependent on the filters being used, ambient wind speed and direction, and on ambient particle distributions and concentrations. Considerable scope exists for the optimisation and refinement of the AER for differing HVAC settings and differing environmental settings. In conclusion, the AER offers a low cost method of reducing building energy consumption in HVAC systems by a significant margin."
